---
layout: post
title: Section 30: Telecommunications
category: 2
path: 2009-11-16-2-03000.md
tag: [normal]
---

The project of building residences for the transmigrators also began. Compared to the previous few infrastructure projects, this one was much simpler. The prefabricated houses were all constructed with standard parts like building blocks, so the construction was not difficult.

The foundation of the residential area has been appropriately raised by 2 meters. Firstly, to prevent possible floods, and secondly, to be able to resist from a high position in case of an attack. The entire slope of the foundation was paved with stones, and the ground was hardened. The prefabricated houses adopted the common row-style layout in new villages. All houses were arranged in a north-south direction, arranged in seven groups around the central square, numbered in clockwise order with Arabic numerals. Among them, groups one to five were male dormitories, group six was a female dormitory, and group seven was for family units. Each single dormitory housed 4 people, and each family had one room. Inside the prefabricated houses, according to past ideas, a comfortable environment was configured as much as possible. Electric lights and power sockets were installed, but there was no furniture—the current wood had to be prioritized for infrastructure projects—even so, it made many people happy. For the first time in more than ten days, they could sleep in a real house, their laptops could be charged again, and their nightlife was no longer boring...

Rows of clotheslines were set up on the square of the living area, and the row of houses on the north side of the square were toilets and washrooms. Brand new flush toilets were unloaded from the ship—not the pedestal toilets used in homes, but the squat toilets commonly known as "Turkish toilets"—the Executive Committee felt that this kind of sanitary ware that did not come into direct contact with the skin was more hygienic. The water used to flush the toilets was drawn directly from the river and stored in a simple water tower behind the toilets. Bairen City had started to supply water of different qualities from the very beginning of its construction.

The washrooms and toilets used the same drainage facilities. This sewage was directly discharged into the agricultural area downwind of the residential area through the sewage channel under the action of gravity due to the height difference. [Wu Nanhai][y009] built a large biogas digester, and all the sewage in the city was treated here.

The entire periphery of the living area was piled up with earth and stones to form a one-man-high low wall, which could be used for resistance when necessary. There was only one entrance to the living area. The gate on the steps was made of sturdy wooden boards, and next to it was a two-story duty room made of stone and cement mortar—actually a blockhouse. The security team personnel were arranged to be on duty here 24 hours a day.

The office environment of the Executive Committee also improved. A two-story steel-frame prefabricated composite building rose from the ground. The interior decoration here was much more magnificent. The furniture was all taken from the Fengcheng ship—these old-style furniture that looked very old in the past now looked both luxurious and magnificent, making many people envious. There was even a local area network in the office! It was rumored among the masses that some people in the Executive Committee played online games in the office every night.

This put a lot of pressure on the communications team, which had just gotten an office in the Executive Committee building. Many people came to the team leader, Li Yunxing, to ask for the network interface to be connected to every room as soon as possible. Some people were also worried that there were not enough routers, and if each room had one interface, everyone would not be able to go online at the same time. So they simply suggested that wireless internet service be fully opened, since most people's laptops had this function anyway.

This request was ruthlessly rejected by the Executive Committee. [Ma Qianzhu][y005] instructed him to set up a communication center in Bairen City as soon as possible.

The solution adopted by the communications team in the pre-transmigration communication plan was actually the now-obsolete PHS system. Of course, this communication system was not ideal in reality, and it was often a case of "hello, hello, can you hear me?". But as a transmigration communication device, it had the characteristics of simple structure and low energy consumption. As for the problem of poor signal, there was no radio interference in the air of the 17th century, nor were there towering buildings and high-voltage lines.

Li Yunxing brought a set of abandoned PHS base stations and controllers from the local telecommunications company, as well as 2 laptops, obsolete telecommunications servers, various communication cables, interface equipment, communication protocols, and a full set of communication management software. These things were enough for him to build a wireless communication network in this time and space.

Such a set of PHS base stations and controllers could support thousands of PHS mobile phones within a radius of up to several tens of kilometers. If a few remote modules were added, it could support a longer distance, which would be enough for internal communication in the base for a considerable period of time.

There were also more than a thousand PHS mobile phones, all of which were purchased in batches with the same signal and the same batch number, so that parts could be replaced and repaired in the future.

He estimated that the transmission power of the existing base station was about 50w, which could probably cover a cellular area of 15km. To meet the requirements of the executive committee members, the coverage of the base station should reach about 35km...40km. In that case, a base station power amplifier should be installed to increase the transmission power of each channel to 200w. This could also greatly increase the system's fading margin. To balance the power, a tower top amplifier should also be installed to increase the uplink signal by about 12db. The overall estimate was that the entire base station would be powered by 230v50hz AC, and the required power would be 7-10kw. He immediately submitted a report to the Executive Committee to request a power supply quota. However, the portable steam engine power station could now provide 200KW of electricity per hour, so this amount of power should not be a problem.

The communications team applied for the help of the engineering team to build a tower in the city and install an array antenna. This could reduce the echo noise of the surrounding buildings. Of course, there were no tall buildings at this time and place, but it was always right to raise it a little higher.

[Wen Zong][y002] proposed that various wireless resources should be integrated as soon as possible so that radios, mobile phones, and walkie-talkies could communicate with each other. In response to this reasonable request, Li Yunxing thought hard for a long time, and then gathered all the team members to study it. In the end, they had to adopt a crude method to solve it: using the air common interface protocol to provide cluster scheduling for everyone's walkie-talkies—they temporarily used an industrial single-chip microcomputer to build a server, simulating the walkie-talkie signal as a mobile phone signal and connecting it to the switch. This solution not only required a single-chip microcomputer, but also an additional antenna due to the different frequencies between PHS and walkie-talkies.

The opening and use of PHS brought back a sense of familiarity to everyone. On the day of number allocation and mobile phone distribution, the communications team office was crowded with people, and everyone wanted a so-called lucky number.

"I want 888888!"

"I want 168168! A prosperous journey!"

"Bullshit, that's mine."

"Little Shao, do you remember me? I even treated you to a meal. Save me one with an 8!"

"You people are so vulgar, you only want 8, skinning?"

"This is called 'fa', getting rich! Do you understand? Illiterate!"

"You are the illiterate one, your whole family is illiterate. You are not a Cantonese, why are you learning to speak like them?" These two people almost came to blows.

"I want 6, give me one with a 6!"

Someone else had a different idea: "I want 444444!"

"Then you might as well have 514514!" someone joked with him.

Shao Zong sat behind the table, with a large box on the table, and shouted at the top of his lungs, "Everyone, don't be chaotic, come one by one. We are drawing numbers in order here, no choosing numbers, you know? You get what you draw. Hey, hey, hey, I say you are so undisciplined, you look at it and throw it back?! No quality!"

"Hey, Little Shao, can you give me a better-looking one? This phone is too ugly." This was a girl speaking.

"I want the flip-top kind. Why are all of yours candy bars? So old-fashioned!" The women chattered, their interest was not in the numbers but in the pile of PHS phones over there—they were all rummaging through them.

"Yeah, there's no choice of color... If I had known, I would have brought the one I threw away at home..." These phones were purchased in batches. Except for some differences in color, the styles and models were all the same. No wonder the girls were not satisfied.

The few people in the communications team tried their best to maintain order, but seeing the scene getting more and more chaotic, Comrade Guo Yi, who had been working nearby, stood up:

"Everyone, don't be chaotic," he had never worked in security, but he was still in the industry. He had seen pigs run even if he hadn't eaten pork. Seeing that this was a time to show off, he immediately stood up to help maintain order. A hot-tempered guy tried to push Little Guo, but was caught in a joint lock and cried out in pain. With such a pathetic example, the noisy crowd immediately quieted down.

The number selection was over soon. Except for a few lucky ones who got the so-called lucky numbers with 8s and 6s, most people got ordinary numbers. Some people who particularly believed in this and didn't get a lucky number cursed with dissatisfaction and went to find the lucky ones, proposing to exchange their own materials and equipment for their numbers.

"There are business opportunities everywhere..." Shao Zong moved the table back to the office with satisfaction. Just like in another time and space, the communications team—the future Transmigration Telecom Company—had already withheld those so-called lucky numbers. Li Yunxing and Shao Zong were planning that once Transmigration Telecom was restructured, they would release these numbers to the market. Good heavens, wouldn't they be rich?

Seeing that the person who stood up to maintain order had left without taking a number, he quickly chased after him:

"Brother, what's your name? Why didn't you take a number and get a phone?" He decided to give him a number with an 8 to show his gratitude.

"Well," Guo Yi scratched his head and said with some embarrassment, "I have a temporary ID card, so I can't get a phone now."

"Oh!" Shao Zong slapped his hand in sudden realization. "You are that Guo Yi, right?"

"You know me?" Little Guo was a little confused. He shouldn't be recognized by anyone here.

"Well, other people don't know, but I've read the internal report that our team leader brought back."

"Oh? What does it say?" Guo Yi was very concerned about his future. The internal report undoubtedly represented the views and policies of the senior management of this group of bold time-space adventurers towards him.

"Well..." Shao Zong thought for a moment with difficulty, "It's not convenient to say, it's classified..."

Damn it, they really learn by example. They are so proficient in this set of things. Little Guo cursed secretly in his heart, but his face was still extremely sincere as he said, "It's okay, I was just asking casually."

"I'll just reveal a little bit," Shao Zong felt that being too principled was a bit inhuman. "As for the three of you, the Executive Committee's meaning is that there should be a distinction. You just need to remember this."

A distinction? What does that mean? Guo Yi fell into deep thought for a moment.
[y002]: /characters/y002 "Wen Desi"
[y005]: /characters/y005 "Ma Qianzhu"
[y009]: /characters/y009 "Wu Nanhai"