---
layout: post
title: Section 36: Interrogating the Captives (Part 1)
category: 2
path: 2009-11-22-2-03600.md
tag: [normal]
---

Someone proposed a comprehensive interrogation and screening of the captives to get as much information about the local situation as possible from them. This was much more useful and faster than the current situation where the Executive Committee could only rely on the intelligence and materials group to find information from books. So Ran Yao got a new task: interrogating the captives.

Although some people raised questions about the human rights of the captives, many people were obviously not interested in how to protect the human rights of the local natives, but were very interested in how to torture the captives. Before Ran Yao could figure out how to interrogate them, someone took the initiative to propose various instruments of torture and methods of torture.

"I'm interrogating captives, not filming the Ten Great Tortures of the Manchu Dynasty." Ran Yao didn't know whether to laugh or cry, and had to repeatedly refuse these people's various enthusiastic proposals. However, there were so many captives, and the security group had its own affairs and couldn't do all the work. After thinking about it, he had to apply to the Executive Committee to second the two former colleagues who held temporary ID cards to him.

Little Guo, who had originally planned to show his skills in battle, although he was also issued a rifle, did not even fire a shot because he was in the wrong place, and was assigned to some battlefield cleaning work. While he was feeling depressed, a transfer order transferred him to the security group. He was excited for a moment: he could finally do his old job again!

"Okay, Little Guo, from today on you are in charge of interrogating the captives. Get the process and outline ready tonight." Ran Yao stretched. "By the way, we also transferred Mu Min over. You two will be a male-female pair, so the work won't be tiring."

"Team Leader Ran, well, she has a husband. Is it appropriate for me to work with her..." Little Guo tactfully expressed the inappropriateness of the arrangement.

"You're quite feudal. What, you want me to transfer the foreign woman to you?" Ran Yao teased him. "Salina's body is almost recovered, but they haven't been appointed yet. It's not easy to handle." As he spoke, he took off his hat and stroked his hair. "By the way, Wu De will also cooperate with your work. He is in charge of the captives. The people you have interrogated will be handed over to him."

"No problem, I will definitely cooperate well with Captain Wu's work!"

"No, you are cooperating with each other, not you cooperating with him," Ran Yao chuckled and patted him on the shoulder. "Comrade Little Guo, although you don't have a formal establishment yet, you are a rare specialist in our security group..."

Guo Yi came out of the security group office a little dizzy. His office was by the river. The construction team was building a captive camp there. The bulldozers and excavators were roaring at work. In the river, there was a group of naked bodies. The captives were taking a bath. Guo Yi had no interest in watching men take a bath. Just as he was about to turn and walk away, someone ran after him from behind:

"Guo, Guo—" It was Xue Ziliang. He had a steel helmet on his head. "I finally found you. I haven't seen you for two weeks."

"What's the matter?" Guo Yi moved a little further away from him. He didn't want anyone to notice that he was talking to the ABC.

"Guo, can you help me find your, um, um—leader, is that what you call them? Tell them to change my job." He looked at his worn-out gloves with a sad face. "I've been driving a tractor for two weeks. I'm an ATF! A professional, you need me!"

"I can't make the decision on this matter," Guo Yi looked around, making sure that no one was paying attention to them. "I myself have a temporary ID. How can I speak for you?"

"God, why do you all speak in the same tone!" Xue Ziliang looked up to the sky and roared, "I can't make the decision on this... This matter needs to be studied... The leader is busy..."

Guo Yi had originally wanted to dismiss him with a single sentence and quickly run off to discuss work with Wu De and Mu Min. Seeing the desperate look on this ABC's face, he felt a little sorry for him. "Xue, you have to learn to be a Chinese now, understand? The first thing to be a Chinese is to have patience," he poked Xue Ziliang's chest with his finger. "Patience, understand? Do your job well, the leader knows everything."

After saying this, he quickly left. As for whether Xue Ziliang could understand his words, that was another matter. As it seemed now, the leadership seemed to trust him more than the foreigners, so he didn't want his image to be always associated with Xue Ziliang and the others.

The captive camp was set up by the river. A clearing was temporarily enclosed with barbed wire. The captives built their own sheds. The five captives led by Wu De now played a great role. Seeing that more companions had come, they immediately realized that they would be put to important use. Therefore, in the entire arrangement, everyone did their best to show their ferocity and ability in front of Wu De.

The interrogation site was just outside this temporary captive camp. A tent was set up. In order to enhance the deterrent effect, a large wooden stump was placed outside the tent, on which was placed a medieval giant battle axe found from someone's collection. It was also specially contaminated with medical waste from the infirmary—the shiny axe was now covered in blood. Although this thing had never cut anyone, those who had seen it still felt a chill on the back of their necks.

Yu E'shui, who came up with this plan, had originally wanted to set up a forest of long spears outside the tent, with a dead person's head on each spearhead, but it was met with unanimous opposition from everyone—the psychological stimulation of this thing was too strong, and they themselves would probably be the first to not be able to stand it.

At night, blazing bonfires were lit on both sides of the road leading from the tent to the camp. The mysterious and terrifying atmosphere made the captives, who were already fearful and uneasy about their fate, even more apprehensive. When he was brought to the entrance and saw the blood-stained axe, he almost immediately collapsed.

The interrogation was conducted by two people together. Mu Min basically did not speak during the interrogation, only taking notes, and sometimes reminding Little Guo—in terms of interrogation experience, the female police officer who had worked in public security and criminal investigation for many years was naturally much more experienced than Little Guo, who mainly invited people for tea. However, having a female pirate interrogate them now seemed to be a bit too much of a shock for this group of Ming Dynasty people, so she had to be temporarily relegated to a secondary position. The one responsible for translation was Lin Xing, who had learned Mandarin the best among the captives. Xiong Buyou was also present to monitor, lest the meaning be mistaken sometimes.

The captive's name, address, age, occupation, family background, and so on. The Internal Affairs Committee instructed the IT team to create a personnel database of the captives in the server, and they only needed to fill it directly into the database.

Although the interrogation team had created a sufficient atmosphere of terror, Guo Yi and Mu Min soon learned the inherent cunning of the Chinese peasants. Everyone said that they were from three generations of poor peasants, with no roof over their heads and no land to stand on. They all had an eighty-year-old mother at home and an eight-year-old child below. This made Guo Yi very puzzled—was being from three generations of poor peasants so popular back then?

As for their names and addresses, they were a mess and impossible to judge—more than a hundred people actually came from eighty or ninety villages. Obviously, many people were hiding their true situation. Many people rolled on the ground when they were captured, trying to cover themselves with mud, but the river water washed away their disguise.

If it were other interrogation officials of this era, they would either be unable to sort out this pile of Zhang San, Li Si, and Wang Ermazi, or they would have to use torture to get the truth. But for people from modern dictatorial institutions, this was not a problem. It is easy to forget a lie that is made up on the spot.

...

"Gender?"

"Name?"

"Didn't you just say your name was Zhao San? Why did you change your surname? What's your real name?"

...

No matter how he swore that he had not said his name was "Zhao San" before, the recording pen would make him speechless. This magical little thing made many people speak the truth in fear. Some people continued their lies until they were exposed again. At this time, he would be driven outside to walk around the fire. A few people would watch him and not let him sleep, but would drive him to walk in circles with a long spear until he was willing to tell the truth. Guo Yi knew that this kind of torture was more effective than any cruel punishment. A person with the strongest will, after his lies were exposed four times in a row, walked in circles for half the night and then fell down and died, giving the captives a terrible warning.

Soon, all the captives confessed everything about themselves, as well as everything they knew about others.

Most of them were indeed poor, but of course, many of them were not so poor. One-third of the captives came from a large village called Huang Family Village. The leader of this attack was Huang Shoutong, the head of the Huang Family Village militia.

Most of the captured local braves from Huang Family Village were tenant farmers and long-term laborers. Some of them had a little land of their own and also rented some of the Huang family's land. Because they were local braves, their treatment was better than that of ordinary tenant farmers and long-term laborers. Tenant farmers could pay less grain, and long-term laborers could also get more wages. There were also some who were of the same clan or relatives of the Huang family, either small landlords or self-cultivating farmers. This time they came out to fight. In addition to the reward given by the county, Huang Shoutong also promised to reduce their money and grain for this year if they won, and to compensate the families of those who died.

Therefore, the Huang Family Village local braves were particularly brave in this battle, and their casualties were also the greatest. According to one of the small leaders, except for those who were just there to make up the numbers as laborers, more than half of the attacking local braves died.

"What about Huang Shoutong?" Guo Yi quickly asked.

"I didn't see Tuanzong Huang," the leader said. "As soon as the masters fired their matchlocks, the Tuanzong got off his horse to command, and then he disappeared..."

The others came from all sorts of places. Most of them were long-term laborers sent by their masters to make up the numbers. Some were extremely poor, and because they had "no ties," they were sent by their clans or villages to fight—meaning that it didn't matter if they died. Those who were unwilling to talk about their situation were mostly small landlords, self-cultivating farmers, and tenant farmers with some family property, who were afraid of implicating their families and being plundered or extorted by the pirates. Many poor people also made up stories out of fear.

From the captives, they learned a lot about the nearby situation, including the distribution of villages, the approximate number of people in the villages, who were the rich households and landlords, and what sideline businesses or special products some villages had. They told everything they knew. Some people, as they spoke, became determined and said that they were willing to join the pirates and could lead them to plunder the rich households in their own villages, as long as they were allowed to kill so-and-so.

The interrogation team carefully recorded the information he provided. Some people, as they spoke, could not control their emotions and burst into tears. Lin Xing also shed tears as he listened.

"What are they all talking about?" Guo Yi asked Xiong Buyou, seeing that they all had a look of deep hatred.

"It's really tragic to talk about—" Xiong Buyou showed a look of sympathy and shook his head. "These people who say they are willing to join us all have blood feuds."

"Let them talk in detail," Guo Yi suddenly became interested. An idea came to his mind. "One by one."