---
layout: post
title: Section 28: Water and Electricity (Part 1)
category: 2
path: 2009-11-14-2-02800.md
tag: [normal]
---

This portable steam engine used for power generation was originally intended to be installed in the main urban area, but its pollution was serious, with soot flying everywhere and loud noise. In addition, the boiler required a large amount of water, so it was finally installed in the hydropower area. For flood control, the foundations of the thermal power station, power distribution room, and substation in the hydropower area were specially raised.

Although the portable steam engine had many benefits for the transmigrators, the fuel it required every day was also considerable. Not to mention that the boiler needed soft water, and it was too extravagant to transport distilled water from the ship for the machine. If natural water was used, rainwater was the best, and river water could also be used, but it was best to soften it. [Luo Duo][y011] said he could make tannin to soften the water, but he couldn't find the raw materials for a while. Finally, [Wang Luobin][y003], based on his experience in the countryside, said that boiled water could be used as a substitute.

Boiling water for this behemoth was a bit ridiculous. A row of stoves was dug on the river beach, and all the pots from the ship were unloaded to boil water. The flames were blazing and steam was everywhere. It was a magnificent sight for a while. The transmigrators were once again engaged in the work of cutting grass and felling trees, and all kinds of firewood were piled up like small mountains.

"Why not use a diesel generator?" [Wen Desi][y002] saw this magnificent scene without any excitement. In his opinion, this was simply a waste of time and manpower. It was true that the portable steam engine could be used without oil, but the manpower consumed in this way was not economical at all.

The operation of a high-power portable steam engine required a hardened ground—not only the foundation of the portable steam engine, but the entire urban area had to be hardened, especially the upcoming simple housing residential area and the streets of the urban area.

The transmigrators did not have bricks in their hands, but it was very convenient to make concrete. Cement and steel bars were transported with the ship, and there were as many stones as they wanted at Bairen Tan—Bairen Tan had always been Lingao's quarry in history. The stones not only supplied the county, but were also sold to neighboring counties. After the transmigrators arrived, the stonemasons all ran away. Many of the stone pieces they had quarried and polished were left behind. There was also a large amount of crushed stone waste left over from quarrying in the quarry—there was plenty of river sand on the river beach, which could be used after being sieved. Cement and mixers were transported from Bopu, and wooden formwork was also needed to make concrete. Wu Kuangming set up an electric sawmill in Bopu, which could conveniently cut wood of various sizes, and soon the wooden formwork was made and transported.

After completing the ground hardening of the portable steam engine power station, the construction team simply started the hydropower project in one go. After all, boiling water to feed the boiler every day was not a long-term solution. And with the relocation of the Executive Committee's office departments, residential areas, and the establishment of new industrial areas, the electricity consumption would increase sharply. At that time, this amount of electricity would not be enough.

The energy group regarded the Bairen Tan hydropower station as its key project in its energy planning and had a full set of design drawings for the power station on hand. However, after a meeting and consultation with the construction team, everyone agreed that it was currently beyond their capabilities to construct it completely according to this plan.

The Bairen Tan hydropower station, which started construction after the Spring Festival in 1967 and was completed by the end of 1968, had a dam 94 meters long and 7.5 meters high, as well as supporting gates, culverts, channels, aqueducts, and water pipes... Even in 20th-century Lingao, it was a major project completed with the efforts of the entire county. It started with more than 300 cadres from government agencies and more than 100 hydropower engineering personnel, and then mobilized hundreds of civilian laborers from the whole county. They even specially transferred more than 200 fishermen's wives who could carry heavy loads from the three communes of Touzui, Huanglong, and Kunshe to carry large stones. The labor input alone reached 64,000 man-days, completing 51,800 cubic meters of earthwork, 5,110 cubic meters of masonry, and 630 cubic meters of concrete...

These numbers were simply astronomical for the transmigrators, so the full set of drawings could only be temporarily stored. In the end, it was decided to adopt a simple channel-type diversion power station. A 200KW generator was installed.

The design plan was to first excavate a diversion channel upstream of the nine-level waterfall of Bairen Tan. The width and depth of the diversion channel were calculated based on the water flow and slope. Fortunately, there were ready-made data tables for these, and it was finally determined that the scale of the diversion channel was a bottom width of 1.5 meters and a water depth of 1 meter.

The diversion channel injects water into a forebay, which connects the diversion channel and the pressure pipe. It consists of a forebay chamber, a trash rack, a gate, an intake chamber, a spillway, and a sand flushing outlet.

The forebay is an important part of a hydropower station. It is not only used to settle sediment and intercept floating debris to prevent them from entering the turbine and causing damage, but it can also play a role in distributing the water volume when there are multiple units. In addition, its most important role is to regulate the amount of water entering the turbine.

When the load of the hydropower station increases and the flow required by the turbine increases, the reservoir in the forebay chamber can supplement the insufficient water from the channel to prevent the water level from dropping and causing air to be sucked into the pressure pipe, which would reduce the output of the unit. Conversely, when the load suddenly decreases, or when there is too much water from upstream causing a flood, the excess flow in the channel can be discharged through the spillway to avoid affecting the safety of the buildings.

The gate of the channel is used to control the flow and intercept the water. It is set in the water delivery chamber of the forebay. Because it is a small hydropower station, it was decided to use wood to make this gate. [Wang Luobin][y003], based on what he had seen and heard in the countryside, recommended the use of a wooden arc gate that was popular during the Great Leap Forward. It used a pulley block and a hand-cranked wooden winch to open, and closed by gravity moment. The structure was simple, it opened and closed quickly, and it was extremely convenient to use.

The pressure pipe was a major problem encountered by the builders. As an important component of a hydropower station used to create a pressure head to drive the turbine to do work, it not only had to withstand the pressure of the water head, but also the water hammer pressure generated by the sudden stop of the water flow in the pressure pipe when the turbine guide vanes or gates were closed. Therefore, the pressure pipe must have a large strength, otherwise it is easy to cause a pipe rupture accident.

In modern times, small and medium-sized hydropower stations generally use steel pipes or reinforced concrete pipes. They naturally did not have large-diameter steel pipes, and the manufacture of reinforced concrete pipes was not a problem, but the consumption of steel bars and cement was too large. At present, they did not have the ability to produce their own cement and steel bars, and there were too many places where they would be needed immediately. So someone suggested using ceramic pipes, but the tensile strength of ceramic pipes was poor, and they would break under a water pressure of 10 meters. They could only be used in small-head power stations. Moreover, no one had ever made such a large ceramic part, and it was probably not possible to find someone in Lingao who could fire it—not to mention that the transmigrators had not yet found a pottery kiln—not even a brick kiln.

[Wang Luobin][y003] considered it over and over again and proposed to use wooden pipes. This kind of wooden pipe was spliced together with wooden planks 4-6 cm thick and tightened with iron hoops. Its strength was better than that of concrete pipes and could be used at a water head height of less than 100 meters. In contrast, concrete pipes could only be used for water heads below 50 meters. If the wooden pipes were well maintained, their lifespan would not be inferior, and they could be used for 10-20 years without any problem.

The problem of wood was relatively easy to solve. The work of felling trees had not stopped for a single day these days. Although there was a lack of drying equipment, Wu Kuangming had built an earthen kiln and used the method of slow smoking with branches and leaves to dry the wood. This method was very inefficient and the degree of drying was not uniform, but it was able to provide enough usable wood.

The problem was that it was not easy to splice pipes with wooden planks. It was a bit like coopering, and this craft was already on the verge of being lost, not to mention making such a large-diameter wooden pipe. After several unsuccessful attempts, someone finally used CAD modeling to break down the standard size of each spliced material. The wood group looked at the processing drawings with each material accurate to the millimeter and with detailed angles, and they didn't know whether to laugh or cry—I don't have a CNC sawing machine here.

However, with the numbers, the exploration had a direction. Based on the data from the drawings and after a few days of exploration, the first pipe was finally spliced together. It was 4 meters long and 0.7 meters in diameter, and was tightened with iron hoops on the outside. After a simple water-filling test, it was found that the splicing strength was not enough. When making the second pipe, the thickness of the iron hoops and wood was increased. After the test was successful, the sawmill immediately produced 32 meters of pressure wooden pipes, of which 12 meters were for spare. It turned out that this backup was necessary, as 2 pipes were scrapped during the construction phase. The joints between the pipes were connected and sealed with cement mortar. The support piers and anchor blocks between the pressure pipes were built with cement mortar and stone.

At the bottom of the pressure pipe is the power plant building. Its foundation requirements are relatively high, so no expense was spared in using crushed stone mortar concrete. Some of the stone strips of various sizes of unknown use from the quarry were also used.

Although Mei Wan and his construction engineering team had never built a hydropower station before, the power station equipment designed for rural areas had detailed and easy-to-understand instructions. A group of people with rich engineering experience studied it carefully, and with their respective memories of the hydropower stations they had seen, it was not difficult to figure out the specific construction methods. Excavating earthwork, ditches, building power plants, and even erecting power poles were all familiar tasks. The channel was an earthen channel, and other buildings were all built with cement mortar and stone.

Excavation was more difficult in some rocky sections, but with tools such as air compressors and pneumatic picks, it was relatively easy to overcome. The Executive Committee had also allocated some ammonium nitrate and kerosene, preparing to use explosives for construction when necessary, but Mei Wan considered it better to use this kind of big killer less—they had no engineering experience in using explosives.

Because [Wang Luobin][y003] had lived and worked in the countryside of Guangxi for many years, he was very familiar with this kind of rural small hydropower and other agricultural and livelihood buildings. He was basically in charge of coordinating the recent projects. While inspecting the construction site, he saw a group of people gathered together at the hydropower station from a distance, as if they were arguing about something. He walked a little closer and saw that it was mainly the personnel of the construction team and its subordinate engineering team. One was the team leader Mei Wan, and the other he had some impression of, it was Zhuo Tianmin who had proposed to build a simple road first during the highway infrastructure construction.
[y002]: /characters/y002 "Wen Desi"
[y003]: /characters/y003 "Wang Luobin"
[y011]: /characters/y011 "罗铎"