---
layout: post
title: "Section 18: The Meeting - Food and Shelter"
category: 1
path: 2009-9-18-1-01800.md
tag: [normal]
---

Once transmigrated to another plane of existence, the transmigrators would primarily face three main problems:

1.  Basic life support: no worries about food and clothing.
2.  Protection from the threat of violence: whether this threat comes from humans or wild animals.
3.  Protection from the ravages of nature: harsh weather, diseases.

Obviously, compared to the overly professional industrial system issues discussed earlier, most people were more concerned with these personal issues.

Modern society is a highly developed society with an extremely detailed and specialized division of labor. Every convenience of life that people take for granted—even the simplest and most inconspicuous—requires an entire industrial system to maintain. Before a drop of tap water comes out of the faucet, it is supported by many industries such as electricity, chemical engineering, steel manufacturing, cement, and construction.

In 17th-century Hainan, none of this existed.

Rice existed in the form of unhusked grain. For water, after simple sedimentation, the only method of disinfection was boiling. For clothes, there was no concept of ready-made garments. The rich could hire tailors, while the common people relied on their wives to cut and sew.

All daily necessities, even the things we are most accustomed to, things that can be bought cheaply in any small shop, did not exist in that time and space, or rather, existed in a very primitive form.

As the head of the Internal Affairs Group responsible for civil affairs, a list of equipment proposed by [Xiao Zishan][y001] sparked a debate.

"Rice milling machines, flour mills, these grain processing equipment, are they necessary to bring? The problem of spare parts, and the power consumption... Ancient times already had water-powered rice milling workshops. For grinding flour, many rural populations in China were still grinding their own wheat in the 1950s."

"Well, I think even if we really want to adopt mechanized production, it can be completely self-made by the mechanical department. Bringing it from this time and space feels like a bit of a waste of tonnage."

"And sewing machines, sergers, cutting tools... Group Leader Xiao, are you planning to open a clothing factory or what?"

"The Agriculture Group firmly supports the need for grain processing equipment! If the Internal Affairs Group hadn't mentioned it, the Agriculture Group would have requested the purchase of this equipment as well." [Wu Nanhai][y009] stood on his side. "It's about the processing speed! Traditional methods of husking rice and grinding flour are very inefficient. With several hundred of us eating, relying on manual operation would consume too much manpower."

"We can use water-powered mills. China had them, Europe had them..."

"Then we would have to build a special mill. And you're not counting the manpower and material resources consumed? If we have electricity, we can directly drive this equipment and process enough grain very quickly."

"The problem of spare parts for these machines can be solved by the mechanical department." [Xiao Zishan][y001] had anticipated the questions that might be raised about this issue. Now with [Wu Nanhai][y009]'s explanation, it was much easier. "In rural areas, they generally store dry grain. For a transmigration group like ours, the ration is based on the standard of the planned economy era: 12 kilograms of rice per adult per month. If there are 500 people, we need to supply at least 6 tons of rice per month.

"This 12-kilogram ration is the standard for ordinary citizens and office workers. The ration for heavy manual laborers needs to be increased. There will be a lot of manual labor after the transmigration, so the consumption will have to be calculated at 14 kilograms. If we also want to bring in local labor, the supply will have to go up another level.

"The grain processed by machines is of good quality and will not be mixed with impurities. Stone mills have very high requirements for the stone material. If the stone quality is not good, the processed flour will have a lot of grit, which is very bad for everyone's teeth.

"As for sewing machines, the principle is the same. Clothes will eventually wear out and need to be replaced. Who do you expect to make the clothes? Your girlfriend? (Laughter)

"Perhaps you can marry a local woman. She won't know how to make our kind of clothes. It's not difficult to teach her to make clothes, but a purely hand-sewn garment, no matter how skilled, will take several days to make.

"Of course, you might be able to wait these few days. The problem is that in the future we will need to recruit workers, and even," he lowered his voice, "an army." He raised his voice: "Will the uniforms for these people also rely on your wives sewing them stitch by stitch? (Laughter)"

"According to you, the armies of the ancients didn't wear clothes? Didn't armies of hundreds of thousands also get new uniforms every year?"

"That was built on the basis of having a large amount of cheap, even free, labor. We don't have that." [Xiao Zishan][y001] looked heartbroken. "Our lives are limited. Our productivity should be more focused on climbing the tech tree. It's better to bring these necessary machines and equipment directly. They can also serve as engineering samples for future replication."

The housing problem was another issue that everyone was more concerned about. The Internal Affairs Group had originally planned to purchase a large number of tents and establish a tent camp as a transition before formal houses were built. However, the Construction Group's proposal was to purchase prefabricated houses for direct assembly. Such prefabricated houses are common on construction sites—as dormitories and office buildings. The panel materials are diverse and can be selected according to needs. They are lightweight, easy to build, have a certain degree of insulation, and are much more comfortable than tents. Their durability is also good: if properly maintained, they can be used for seven to eight years without any problem.

"A department in our company has been using the simplest color steel prefabricated houses as warehouses and office buildings for almost ten years now, and they are still in very good condition," said [Li Xiaolü][y156], [Auntie Tian][y110]'s daughter, who was a small, slender northern woman, almost thirty, with fair skin and wearing a pair of thin-rimmed glasses. "They can also be made into multi-story buildings, but a light steel structure needs to be added."

"Because the environment we will be facing is relatively harsh," her voice was soft and thin, "we can use higher-grade materials, such as magnesium-phosphate prefabricated houses.

"The walls and roof panels of this type of prefabricated house are made of magnesia composite panels with a polystyrene foam core, with steel doors and windows, and the frame is a light steel keel. Installation does not require special machinery. Four skilled workers using simple tools can assemble a standard house in four hours, which is about 60 square meters.

"Its modularity is better than that of color steel houses. It can be arbitrarily added or subtracted in the longitudinal direction, the area can be expanded or reduced at will, and the positions of doors, windows, and front and rear wall panels can be interchanged arbitrarily. After strengthening the structure, it can also be used to build multi-story buildings.

"This kind of house has good sealing, heat insulation, and the housing materials are all fireproof. It is moisture-proof, anti-corrosive, earthquake-resistant, and lightweight. A standard house weighs only 2200 kilograms. The expected service life is more than ten years.

"Dormitories, offices, and small warehouses can all use this type of house."

"What about for factory buildings?" The Industrial Group was more concerned about this issue.

"It's not suitable for large-span factory buildings and warehouses, but we can use prefabricated houses with washed stone finish." [Li Xiaolü][y156] continued her introduction. "It's actually a simple house with a steel angle structure and cement panels. It's much heavier than ordinary prefabricated houses. The advantage is that its lifespan can reach more than twenty years. It can be used to assemble large-span houses, and can also be used to build 2-3 story buildings."

"Cement panels..." someone hesitated.

"The Construction Group has just discussed it and believes that it is not a big problem for our industrial system to produce cement and angle steel on our own. If the factory building is not particularly urgently needed, we can just bring the drawings and necessary mold tooling materials and build it ourselves with local materials." Her face was a little pale. "However, installing prefabricated houses is a technical job. I suggest that we send some people to this type of prefabricated house company to learn on site."

[Wen Desi][y002] nodded and made a note in his memorandum: "Practical skills training."

"Can we install water and electricity in this kind of house?"

"Yes, although we can't embed pipes in the walls, it's no problem to do surface installation. However, our Construction Group's view is that we should not install separate water supply and drainage systems in dormitories and office buildings to save materials.

"For the need for water, we believe it is best to adopt independent public washrooms, including three parts: bathrooms, washrooms, and toilets. This will facilitate the centralized installation of plumbing systems. Considering the rainy problem in Hainan, enclosed corridors will be installed from the dormitories and offices to the public washrooms, so that everyone can use them on rainy days. The temperature in Hainan is not low in winter, so we have not considered a bathroom heating system in the preliminary design."

"What about cooling? Hainan is very hot in summer. We need air conditioning."

Although this person's speech drew a lot of eye-rolls, many people in their hearts were still quite hopeful for air conditioning: they were used to using air conditioning, but in 17th-century Hainan, there wouldn't even be electric fans.

"Traditional air conditioning is definitely impossible." [Li Xiaolü][y156] glanced at [Xiao Zishan][y001]. Seeing that the meeting moderator did not object, she continued, "Traditional air conditioning requires a lot of electricity and chemical refrigerants. It's a bit of a luxury for us. If the Executive Committee ultimately decides to use air conditioning, we have two options available." She seemed a little dizzy, felt nauseous again, and stood for a while holding onto the table before continuing:

"One is a wet-curtain cooling air conditioner, which is actually an evaporative air cooler. It saves the indoor unit fan and compressor, and the refrigerant is water. It is very energy-efficient. The disadvantage is the high humidity, and the manufacturing of this air cooler also has considerable difficulty."

"The other is groundwater cooling air conditioning. The principle is similar to radiator heating, but the steam is replaced by groundwater pumped by a water pump. The initial investment for this method is relatively large, requiring deep wells, and the evaporator needs to use copper pipes."

"I personally prefer the second option. Its effect is much better than the first one, and the system is relatively simpler."

"Isn't this kind of air conditioning not allowed by the state? They say it wastes water."

"Damn it, there's no such regulation in the other plane of existence."

"Well, I know that. But it still wastes water, it's not environmentally friendly."

"Do we still care about environmental protection at that time?"

"The groundwater can be re-injected, so there is no waste," she explained. "If we want something more advanced, we can also use geothermal air conditioning. The method is similar to the second one. At a depth of ten meters underground, the temperature is generally constant at around 20 degrees Celsius. We can achieve warmth in winter and coolness in summer by first drilling to this depth and then circulating water as a heat exchange medium between the underground and the building. In winter, we extract heat from the ground, and in summer, we release heat into the ground. Of course, our camp must be on a geologically stable foundation. If it is too active, it can only provide heat."

The eyes of the attendees were all on [Xiao Zishan][y001]—he was in charge of internal affairs. [Xiao Zishan][y001], in turn, looked at [Wen Desi][y002], the chairman. In his heart, he was in favor of any practice that would improve the living conditions of the transmigrators. It is easy to go from frugality to luxury, but difficult to go from luxury to frugality. He understood this basic principle. For a group of mostly pampered city dwellers to start over in a barren land, excessively harsh living conditions would lead to low morale.

But he did not dare to openly state his position. Such a living system would involve the use of a large amount of industrial resources, and he really did not have the courage to make the decision to approve it.

[Wen Desi][y002] exchanged glances with him for a long time, then looked at the leaders of the various groups for a long time, and finally said a classic line:

"Let's study this issue further."

[y001]: /characters/y001 "萧子山"
[y002]: /characters/y002 "文德嗣"
[y110]: /characters/y110 "曹顺花"
[y156]: /characters/y156 "李潇侣"
[y009]: /characters/y009 "吴南海"