---
layout: post
title: Section 37: Interrogating the Captives (Part 2)
category: 2
path: 2009-11-23-2-03700.md
tag: [normal]
---

"My name is Zhang Xingjiao, and I was originally a tongsheng." The man knelt on the ground, trembling. Guo Yi and the others did not impose their own concept of equality on these captives. The pressure of inequality was actually beneficial to them.

"Tongshen?" Mu Min frowned. "A virgin? Does he practice virgin boy kung fu?"

Xiong Buyou almost burst out laughing. "It's tongsheng, a scholar who hasn't passed the xiucai examination."

Everyone looked at this person carefully. Although his clothes were tattered and his skin was dark, a closer look revealed that his hands and feet were not rough. He was not a man from a poor background.

Seeing their smiles, Zhang Xingjiao sighed self-deprecatingly, "I have not succeeded in my studies, which has made the masters laugh. My family is originally from here. We have been farmers for generations, and our ancestors passed down a few acres of land. There is a large clan with the surname Gou in the village. Because a few rich households emerged from the clan and they could speak to the clerks in the yamen, they acted tyrannically in the village. My father couldn't stand it, so he sent me to study, hoping that I could pass the imperial examination and support the family so that we would not be bullied by them. But I was useless and failed the examination again and again."

Perhaps feeling ashamed, his face turned red. "Studying costs money. My family sold a few acres of land, and our household expenses were already tight. Suddenly, our family's buffalo died. Everyone said it was done by the Gou family, but we had no evidence, and we didn't have the power to sue them. My father was both angry and anxious, and he fell seriously ill. A farmer's family has no spare money. In desperation, we sold the remaining four acres of land with a contract. We could have sold it for more money, but the Gou family, relying on their familiarity with the clerks in the yamen, prevented other large households from buying it and severely lowered the land price. The money we got from selling the land was less than half of the usual price..."

"Forced sale." Mu Min nodded sympathetically.

"The land was sold, but when my father found out about it, he was even more angry. After a few months, the money was spent and he was gone—" Zhang Xingjiao wiped his tears. "That's not all. The Gou family was so malicious that they colluded with the master in the yamen who was in charge of money and grain, and did not transfer the ownership of the four acres of land. My family's land has been sold, but we still have to pay the money and grain taxes every summer and autumn. How can there be such an unreasonable thing in the world?"

Was there such a thing? Several people were very surprised. This was a very common thing in the middle and late Ming Dynasty, called "property gone, grain tax remains": the land was sold, but the tax burden was not reduced at all. The buyer, on the contrary, did not have to pay taxes and grain, which often caused farmers to be forced to flee after losing their land.

"In these years, the court's money and grain taxes have been particularly heavy, and the Liaodong tax has been added. This has made life difficult for small households like us! I asked the buyer why he didn't transfer the ownership of the money and grain. It was clearly written in the document. The head of the Gou family said that he had already spoken to the masters in the yamen who were in charge of money and grain, and that the failure to transfer the ownership had nothing to do with him. I made a few empty trips to the city, but was scolded by the masters, who said I was a troublemaker."

The tent was silent. The captives sitting on the ground waiting to be interrogated were deeply moved by his story. Most of them had their own grievances. Hearing his tragic story, some shed tears silently, while others bit their lips, thinking of their own experiences, and their hearts were filled with anger and injustice.

"I was forced to pay the money and grain for the land I had sold. When the deadline for paying the grain tax came, the yamen runners came to the countryside with summonses with fire seals, holding water and fire sticks, iron chains, and handcuffs to arrest people, like wolves and tigers. As soon as they arrived at my house, they beat people and smashed pots and bowls without saying a word. They arrested me and took me to the county to be pressed for payment. I was pressed every three days, beaten until my body was covered with wounds, and then I was put in a cangue for public display... I was about to die, but fortunately, a few of my former classmates who were studying in the county school pleaded with the instructor and the proctor for mercy, and my life was spared. When I returned home, the Gou family colluded with the yamen runners again. On the pretext of having paid my tax and grain on my behalf, they forced me to sign a contract with a false price and a real deed, and took over my family's few plots of residential land and ancestral graves. My poor family's ancestral graves for generations were all dug up by him..." At this point, he banged his head on the ground and cried incessantly.

This time, when they were going to war, the large households in the village, because he had nothing and no family property, felt that it didn't matter if he died, so they tied him up with three other people and sent them to the city as militia. He was originally on the route to attack Bopu. Because he was weak and couldn't run fast, he was captured.

They asked a few more who wanted to join, and their stories were similar. They were all people who could not survive under the oppression of the large households and the government. Everyone had a blood feud, and everyone sympathized with them.

"This matter should be reported to the Executive Committee." Mu Min wiped her red eyes. "The common people are too miserable. We must carry out land reform!"

Guo Yi also felt very sympathetic in his heart, but he was not interested in land reform. He also expressed his sympathy for Mu Min's sigh, lest he be said to be cold-blooded, but he did not say a word about land reform—who knew what the leaders were thinking! Newcomers should be more cautious in their words. But from this matter, he had an idea. This idea, combined with what he had heard from Shao Zong today about the content of the Executive Committee's post-war review meeting last night, he felt that there was a great possibility that it would be adopted.

"Attack the large households?" [Wen Desi][y002] looked at [Xiao Zishan][y001] with some surprise.

"Yes," [Xiao Zishan][y001] nodded. "To be precise, it's to attack the local tyrants and evil gentry."

"[Zishan][y001], we all discussed it at that time. We are not going to do that land reform thing."

"We are not doing land reform, we are just attacking the large households. To put it bluntly, we are doing the 'enforcing justice on behalf of heaven, robbing the rich to help the poor' thing." [Xiao Zishan][y001] took out a few pages of paper. "This is Guo Yi's suggestion and some materials he obtained during the interrogation of the captives. Using the information obtained from the interrogation of the captives, we will attack a group of large households with public grievances. First, to win the hearts of the people and warn the local diehards not to confront us; second, we can obtain a large amount of grain and materials."

On these few pages of paper, the information provided by the captives about the large households with bad records was recorded, including population, defense, land, property, and so on. It was very detailed. Some even included how many pigs and cattle they had in their homes, and where their gold and silver might be hidden. It was simply a detailed robbery guide. As long as the transmigrators followed the map, it would not be difficult to make a fortune.

Naturally, the so-called "robbing the rich to help the poor" has always been mainly to help oneself. But this set of things had a great attraction for the common people. Although the common people did not actually get much benefit, subverting the daily order that oppressed them and bringing down the high and mighty people was still full of temptation for many people.

The Executive Committee discussed it, and this suggestion received strong support from a group of radicals. For the moderates, the original "hunting" was to randomly find attack targets, which was likely to kill some people who should not be killed and harm the interests of a group of people who should not be harmed, leaving hidden dangers for future administrative construction. After adopting this plan, the "hunting" plan could become more targeted, and with the slogan that could attract and inspire the people: "eliminate the violent and pacify the good, rob the rich to help the poor," it was simply the finishing touch. Both sides were satisfied, and they had to look at Comrade Guo Yi in a new light.

"We really need to attack a few large households to supplement our supplies." [Wu Nanhai][y009], as the person in charge of the agriculture and food departments, lowered his voice and said to everyone, "I was just about to remind everyone about the food problem."

He opened a notebook: "Our grain reserves are based on 1 kg per person per day, with a continuous supply of rice and flour for 60 days. The total reserve is 35 tons. After D-day, most people are actually allocated 600-800 grams per day, because we can provide more protein and fat, including canned food, instant food, and sea fish, which reduces the demand for carbohydrates. In this way, the daily consumption of grain is 350 kg, so the grain consumption is less than expected, and the reserve can last for about 15 more days than expected. But this number does not include the captives.

"The number of captives that Wu De reported to me today is 138. Based on a daily ration of 300 grams per person—if we want them to do heavy physical labor, this ration is actually not enough—from tomorrow on, we will consume an extra 40 kg of grain every day. This is not a small number. We need to open up a source of grain as soon as possible."

"What about our own grain planting plan?" [Xiao Zishan][y001] knew that [Wu Nanhai][y009]'s agriculture group had brought countless essences of modern agriculture.

"In the past, we didn't have the manpower. Now that there are more captives, it will be easier. Hainan can have three harvests a year in the 21st century. But now it's the Little Ice Age. I'm not sure how cold Hainan is. I have to ask the captives before I can decide what to plant."

"I remember that it even snowed in Hainan during the Ming Dynasty."

"This should be a special case, but it's certain that the temperature is a few degrees lower. Two harvests a year should be possible. I hope to be allocated more captives. To be honest, I'm not very confident in the otaku's ability to farm..."

[Xiao Zishan][y001] jotted down his request in his notebook.

"And salt, we need to find a source or produce it ourselves as soon as possible. The agriculture group has one ton of salt, which is enough for now, but now because we need to make many preserved products, the consumption is quite fast. Other departments also have needs and all apply to the agriculture group, which makes it difficult for me."

"Salt shouldn't be difficult, right? I remember that Hainan was one of the first places in China to carry out large-scale salt drying. There are many salt fields along the coast of the Beibu Gulf and the Qiongzhou Strait."

"We need to start building a salt field as soon as possible."

"That's easy to say," [Wang Luobin][y003] said with full confidence. "I often went to the salt fields by the sea when I was a child in Guangxi. I know how to dry salt." He frowned. "But drying salt is hard and strenuous work. It's fine if it's all mechanized, but if we use manpower, we don't have enough labor now."

"No need to bother, we can go and rob..." Yu E'shui opened a book. "According to the county annals, there is an official salt field on the Maniao Peninsula not far from us. I think the salt there is enough for us to use."

"Let's go rob the salt. The chemical department needs it very much. We need to spare some manpower."

"Let's sort out what projects need to be met. Then we can talk about how to allocate manpower."
[y001]: /characters/y001 "Xiao Zishan"
[y002]: /characters/y002 "Wen Desi"
[y003]: /characters/y003 "Wang Luobin"
[y009]: /characters/y009 "Wu Nanhai"