---
layout: post
title: "Section 14: The Meeting - The First Grouping"
category: 1
path: 2009-9-14-1-01400.md
tag: [normal]
---

From the very beginning, [Xiao Zishan][y001] had set his sights on the small coastal cities. After half a month of running around, he finally rented a county maritime militia training base in a certain location.

This base, rented by the Transmigration Company, was a training camp from the era of全民皆兵 (quánmín jiē bīng - every citizen a soldier). It had been empty for a long time after major military downsizing. Because it was located in a hilly area, it was surrounded by mountains on almost all sides, except for a small port for sea training. Transportation was inconvenient, and the only road, having little value, was poorly maintained.

The place was remote, with few idle people, making it easy to avoid public notice. The facilities, such as barracks, warehouses, and a training ground, though a bit dilapidated, were basically complete. The county's People's Armed Forces Department, because the location was so poor and had long been without inquiries, asked for a very low rent. The only additional condition was that they must continue to employ two retired workers as gatekeepers. [Xiao Zishan][y001] readily agreed—they would take turns living in the gatehouse for a week at a time, and besides watching the gate and sweeping the floor, they wouldn't bother with other matters.

First, he hired a cleaning company to clean the base inside and out. Then he found a renovation company to repair the broken glass, clogged water pipes, and so on. Because this place was still a reserve barracks for the People's Armed Forces Department, the equipment inside was still quite complete. After cleaning and adding some things, it could be moved into directly.

The Transmigration Company moved to this place on a certain day. As for the office in Guangzhou, [Wen Desi][y002] still kept it. After all, the company's registered address was there.

With the base established, the first batch of core personnel began to report for duty one after another. These were all specialists in various fields, hand-picked by [Wen Desi][y002] after long periods of contact from among the applicants.

Many people arrived full of doubt, and many simply thought it was a scam.

Only when they saw the piles of RMB, the Ming Dynasty porcelain, and the wormhole shimmering with a strange light did they realize it was real.

Some fled immediately, unable to accept it—it was too crazy.

Some pondered for a few days, but still left.

Others burst with irrepressible excitement and threw themselves into it with all their being.

Some remained calm in the face of change, simply registered, settled in, and joined the work.

The team needed for a transmigration organization was thus preliminarily established.

To facilitate management and division of labor, the committee decided to convene a plenary meeting of all the personnel who had already reported for duty, in order to restructure the transmigration organization.

What kind of political system to adopt after the future transmigration was a question that could not be discussed for the time being. After all, not all participants had arrived, and it was not convenient to establish a power structure before a general meeting was held to discuss it. Therefore, the purpose of the meeting was limited to establishing a structure equivalent to an administrative department.

The meeting was held in the base's large conference room. The conference room was large enough to accommodate the nearly fifty people present. Although the tables and chairs were old, they were still usable. [Xiao Zishan][y001] even found many porcelain teacups in a cabinet, saving them from using disposable paper cups. The only new addition was a whiteboard.

[Xiao Zishan][y001] took out a recording pen and tested it.

"I propose manual recording." A young woman stood up. "It's very difficult to transcribe meeting minutes from a recording. I type very fast with Wubi. I'll do it."

"You are?"

With dozens of new faces suddenly appearing, [Xiao Zishan][y001] didn't recognize them all. This woman was thin and small, not particularly beautiful, but it was clear she was physically agile, a woman who loved sports.

"I am [Li Yiwo][y006]'s girlfriend, my name is [Li Yuanyuan][y007]. I used to be a secretary, so taking meeting minutes is a piece of cake for me."

[Xiao Zishan][y001] knew of this [Li Yiwo][y006]. He was also in machining, a fanatical firearms enthusiast, a gun buddy of [Zhan Wuya][y004], and the kind of person who wouldn't fart a peep all day. [Xiao Zishan][y001] guessed that the only reason he wanted to transmigrate was to build guns without restriction.

This young girl had also come with him. "I'll follow you to the ends of the earth" was apparently not just an empty phrase. Thinking of this, [Xiao Zishan][y001] couldn't help but feel a twinge of jealousy.

"Alright, but let's keep the recording pen on as well."

[Li Yuanyuan][y007] brought over a netbook and casually typed in the time and date, then turned to [Xiao Zishan][y001].

"Please begin."

[Xiao Zishan][y001] cleared his throat.

"Although we all know each other, this is the first time we have gathered together. I will first announce the rules of the meeting.

"This meeting will discuss each topic on the agenda one by one. We cannot deviate from the topic until the discussion of a new topic has begun.

"The meeting may last for a long time. For discussion topics that are not in your specialty or that you are not interested in, you may leave the room. You may leave after a topic is finished and before a new topic begins, or during the break announced by the meeting moderator.

"After each topic is finished, the meeting moderator will ring a bell once, and then wait three minutes before starting a new topic. Those who wish to re-enter must do so during this period.

"Raise your hand to speak, and you may only begin after being recognized by the moderator.

"Remarks must be directed at the issue, and must not involve comments on other speakers.

"That's all." [Xiao Zishan][y001] looked at the transmigrators sitting around him, nodded with a friendly smile, and said, "Now, let's ask [Chief Wen][y002] to first introduce the current progress of the transmigration preparations."

[Chief Wen][y002] stood up, coughed, and a room full of people stared at him.

"Regarding the current state of the transmigration, I will first give an introduction."

With that, [Wen Desi][y002] gave a brief introduction to the current status of the wormhole, the trade situation, the contact with the Ming people, and the profits made. As soon as he finished, someone asked to speak.

"My name is [Jin Keshou][y008]. I suggest that [Chief Wen][y002] stop selling porcelain. I know a little about the antiques circle: it's quite independent but also very familiar. It doesn't matter if you sell a few pieces now, but if you continue to sell them, the circle in the entire province, and even the whole country, will know in a few days. This is very detrimental to our secrecy. I'm afraid it will alert the cultural relics protection units."

[Wen Desi][y002] leaned forward, very concerned. He really didn't know much about the antiques circle. "Then what is your suggestion?"

"Medicinal materials," he said. "Many of the precious medicinal materials in traditional Chinese medicine are extremely scarce now, and their prices are very high. For example, rhinoceros horn, natural bezoar, and musk."

"Let's forget about rhinoceros horn. That will definitely attract the Bureau of Industry and Commerce," someone raised an objection. "But precious spices can be considered."

"Alright, this suggestion is accepted. We will try it in the next trade."

"The next topic is on the industrial side. First, let's start with energy..." [Xiao Zishan][y001] was saying, when he suddenly saw [Ma Qianzhu][y005] raise his hand. "What is it?"

"Should we first establish the administrative structure and divide into different professional groups? It would be more convenient to speak that way."

"Yes, I agree," said [Wang Luobin][y003]. "Otherwise, it will be disorganized when we talk."

"Then first is the Agriculture Group," a sturdy man stood up. "I am [Wu Nanhai][y009], a graduate of XX Agricultural University. Food is the first necessity of the people, and the problem of food is our primary task."

"Alright, Agriculture Group." [Xiao Zishan][y001] wrote the first group on the whiteboard.

"Industrial Group!" "Transportation Group!" "Geology Department!" "Ministry of Railways!" "Highway Bureau!" "Transmigration Mobile!" "Aviation Committee!" "Military Group!" "Ministry of the Army!" "Ministry of the Navy!" "Chengguan Bureau!" "Cheka!" "NDRC!"

...

Seeing that the grouping was starting to turn into a farce, [Xiao Zishan][y001] had to stop their surging passion:

"Alright, alright, the main purpose of grouping is for the preparation work of the transmigration. How to set up the organization after we establish the base is another matter. Let's not think too complicatedly." He smiled, "We haven't even transmigrated yet, let's not get into the business of getting promoted and rich just yet."

Everyone laughed. After a while, the following groups were formed:

Eight professional groups: Industry, Agriculture, Construction, Energy, Communications, Sports, IT, and Intelligence/Data. In addition to the professional groups, two support groups were also established: General Affairs and Procurement. The General Affairs Group was responsible for arranging and coordinating the contact, reporting, and registration of personnel, as well as the daily life of all transmigrators and the operation of the organization; Procurement was responsible for purchasing various equipment and materials according to the procurement list.

Each group elected its own responsible person, and the leaders of each group formed a temporary executive committee. A coordination meeting was held once a week to coordinate the operations of the various departments. When necessary, it could also be convened temporarily.

[Wen Desi][y002] became the chairman of the Executive Committee without any surprise. Originally, [Zhan Wuya][y004] wanted to nominate [Wang Luobin][y003] as the leader of the Industrial Group, but [Wang Luobin][y003] declined, saying that he was not professional enough in machinery. In the end, [Zhan Wuya][y004] became the group leader.

No one wanted to be the head of the General Affairs Group. No one wanted to do it. It was about managing food, drink, and daily necessities, as well as personnel matters, which was too trivial. If it were an ordinary enterprise, there would at least be plenty of perks. The problem was that they were going to transmigrate in a year, and no matter how much money they saved up, it would all be waste paper. In the end, it would all have to be contributed to the organization.

[Xiao Zishan][y001] hinted at [Wen Desi][y002], and then [Wen Desi][y002] nominated him, and he got the position of head of the General Affairs Group.

[Xiao Zishan][y001]'s thinking was simple: he had no professional skills, and the preparation stage of the transmigration was bound to be a period when the tech-savvy people would show their talents and their right to speak would rise. Using this position to keep himself in the management layer was the best. In the next institutional reorganization, he would have enough political qualifications.

However, to avoid suspicion as much as possible, at [Xiao Zishan][y001]'s suggestion, a separate accounting group directly under the committee was established within the committee, responsible for revenue, appropriation, and audit.

After the grouping was completed, a chaotic sound of pulling chairs and changing seats immediately filled the conference room. Without anyone suggesting it, the groups sat together. The newly appointed group leaders looked around, already feeling quite like leaders.

In contrast, the core of the General Affairs Group was basically a women's army. The first batch to arrive were all technical core members, so those under the banner of the General Affairs Group were the girlfriends and wives brought by these core members—and also an [auntie][y110], who was the mother of a [certain female technician][y156]—truly, the heart of a parent is pitiful...

[Xiao Zishan][y001] began to have a headache about how to get along with the women's army in the future. What was worse, these were all "other people's women." He secretly reminded himself to be careful to avoid suspicion.

[y001]: /characters/y001 "萧子山"
[y002]: /characters/y002 "文德嗣"
[y003]: /characters/y003 "王洛宾"
[y004]: /characters/y004 "展无涯"
[y005]: /characters/y005 "马千瞩"
[y006]: /characters/y006 "李一挝"
[y007]: /characters/y007 "李元元"
[y008]: /characters/y008 "金克绶"
[y110]: /characters/y110 "曹顺花"
[y156]: /characters/y156 "李潇侣"
[y009]: /characters/y009 "吴南海"