---
layout: post
title: Section 27: Bairen City
category: 2
path: 2009-11-13-2-02700.md
tag: [normal]
---

In the following days, Fu Youdi quickly completed the process of completely transforming from an honest farmer into a petty tyrant. In his simple peasant consciousness, it was only natural to take a cut of whatever passed through his hands.

At first, it was just taking more of the dry and meaty parts for himself when distributing food. Then, the task of assigning work was also given to him. Wu De only told them how much work to do each day, and did not ask how it was done. So he assigned all the work to the other four people, and just pretended to work himself. At first, some people were unwilling and also slacked off. Fu Youdi did not dare to manage them, but at mealtime, the power of food distribution was revealed—Fu Youdi would only give the soup on the surface to those who were unwilling to work. Wang Tian, because he was a local native like him, the two of them got along better and became the object of preferential treatment, working less and eating more. The other three people became the victims, working more and eating less. So one evening at dinner, a small conflict broke out. Lin Xing took the lead in resisting and knocked Fu Youdi to the ground. Wu De did not interfere with the rights and wrongs of the matter, but gave each person involved in the fight fifty lashes with a rattan cane. Lin Xing, who started the fight, received one hundred.

Undoubtedly, on that day, while the buttocks of the five captives were burning, their hatred for each other was also burning fiercely. Fu Youdi completely lost face. He began to dare to shout at Lin Xing, and his deduction of food became unscrupulous. The conflict deepened—according to Wu De's observation, the five people were divided into three factions: Fu Youdi was trying to win over Wang Tian, Lin Xing was trying to resist, and they were all trying to win over the two people who were on the sidelines. Wu De sometimes deliberately created conflicts among them, sometimes saying that they were not working hard enough, and sometimes using the excuse that the cleaning work was not done well to lower the food standard. When one person's mistake caused everyone to go hungry, mutual accusations further deepened the conflict between them.

The smarter and bolder Lin Xing plucked up the courage to complain directly to him about Fu Youdi's problem, although his Mandarin was halting and sometimes he couldn't express himself clearly. So Wu De took the opportunity to teach the fattening Fu Youdi a lesson—to let him know his limits; he also intentionally or unintentionally showed his favorit-ism towards Lin Xing. The captives, who were suffering from Fu Youdi's exploitation, were grateful for Wu De's insight, and they also knew that it was because Lin Xing had reported him. So even the laziest people began to actively learn Mandarin.

"Ah De, you're really something! Did you give them a love potion?" Xiong Buyou found that his students had suddenly become diligent. After dinner, they were not in a hurry to go to bed, but came to him for extra lessons to learn to speak.

Wu De chuckled. This situation was not at all unexpected to him. In terms of human nature, there was no essential difference between the 17th century and the 21st century.

Wu De's new task was just a small episode in his daily work. Although this matter was of great significance in later generations, few people paid attention to it at the time. All the attention was focused on the progress of the road construction project.

Except for a small amount of leveling and shaping using manpower, the entire line was constructed with mechanization. The construction team became more and more familiar with how to organize the construction. By D+6, which was the seventh day of the ninth lunar month of the first year of the Chongzhen reign of the Ming Dynasty, or October 3, 1628 in the Gregorian calendar, the 12-kilometer-long simple highway from Bopu to Bairen Tan was completed one day later than the Executive Committee's request—although it was a flat plain from Bairen Tan to Bopu, there was actually a slight slope. The highway was not a straight line, but slightly curved.

The fortifications along the highway were kept. In the future, they would be expanded and reinforced into small fortresses as the cornerstone of road protection.

As for Bairen Tan itself, it would become the first city of the transmigrators in this time and space.

The construction team had already given this new city a simple and fitting name: "Bairen City."

"It has a bit of a wuxia novel feel to it." Mei Wan stood on the cliff of Bairen Tan with high spirits. This was the location of the Bairen Tan hydropower station's spillway in the 21st century. The drop to the power house was about 16 meters. The Wenlan River had a sharp turn here. The nine-level rocks formed the slope waterfall of Bairen Tan. The water flow was rapid, and the sound was like thunder. This was the so-called "Bairen Tan sound," which could be heard for more than twenty li around.

"Lord of Bairen City!" Yan Quezhi waved the survey pole in his hand and struck a pose. A few people also followed suit and made a few martial arts moves.

"Is the plan out yet?"

"It's out." [Li Xiaolü][y156] unfolded a 1:1000 planning map. As for how to plan this so-called "base that inherits the flame of civilization of the 21st century," from the construction team itself to the various departments of the Executive Committee, everyone put forward their own views and suggestions. [Li Xiaolü][y156] summarized them and decided to design it according to the planning ideas of the new socialist countryside in the late 1970s. At that time, there was a special planning and design drawing specifically for the "commune seat" level of villages and towns. This kind of village and town considered administration, education, small industrial enterprises, and also agricultural production buildings. It was a new type of rural residential model that combined urban and rural areas, and took into account industry, agriculture, and sideline businesses.

The plan for Bairen City was for the entire city to be developed along both banks of the Wenlan River, with the main urban area and the hydropower area on the east bank of the Wenlan River, and the heavy industrial area on the west bank.

The hydropower area will build a power station, a water treatment plant, and in the future, a small inland river wharf and warehouse will be set up.

The main city is about 100 meters away from the hydropower area on the river bank. The groundwater level of this plot is lower, and the soil bearing capacity is also very good. The entire ground has a slope of about 4% from south to north, and rainwater can be effectively discharged by relying on the natural slope.

At the southernmost end of the main urban area is the water supply station. Because of the slope, the tap water does not need to be pressurized, and a simple water tower can be used to supply water to the entire city.

The main urban area is planned into the following areas according to different uses:

Administrative area, in the middle section of the main urban area, various government agencies are arranged in order along the north-south main road.

Cultural, educational, and health area, to the east of the administrative area, it is planned to have schools, health clinics, libraries, simple stadiums, and clubs.

Residential area, located in the northeast area of the main urban area, with the largest area—the simple dormitories do not need to occupy such a large area, but considering that more than 500 people will organize their own families in the future, and the family size may be very large, so the housing land is reserved first.

Industrial product storage area, storing all materials, equipment, and machines transported from the 21st century, including arms. This area will have a separate wall.

Agricultural area, including agricultural product processing plants, granaries, veterinary stations, vegetable greenhouses, and livestock pens, as well as a biogas digester.

Industrial area, various machinery, parts manufacturing, and equipment factories.

The main urban area is completely planned according to function. The residential area is separated from the industrial area, and comfort and safety are considered to the greatest extent.

Due to the heavy pollution of the heavy industrial area, and considering that the prevailing wind in Lingao is from the northeast, the heavy industrial area is located on the west bank of the Wenlan River in the downwind area, including the planned steel plant, chemical plant, and those industries with more serious pollution, such as paper mills.

An open commercial and trade area will also be set up outside the east gate of the main urban area for exchanging agricultural products, local specialties, and small commodities with the local natives.

The grand plan for Bairen City was unanimously approved by the Executive Committee. Almost at the same time, some people began to compete for the position of their own department on the future "Chang'an Avenue." The question of whose ministry building could be closer to the Executive Committee building almost caused some enthusiastic members to come to blows, until [Wen Desi][y002] repeatedly explained that there were no ministry buildings in the current plan, nor was there an Executive Committee building. There was only a foundation marker for an administrative agency in the plan. Needless to say, everyone would be working together in the same office for several years.

To start construction, it was no longer realistic to use the auxiliary engines on the ship for power supply as on the beach. The Executive Committee had multiple choices, including diesel generator sets, wind turbine generator sets, and solar power stations. However, these things had their own advantages and disadvantages. The wind power in the inland area was limited, and the power of the wind turbines was only 300 watts, which was almost useless except for lighting. The power generation of solar energy was also very limited. For the sake of saving diesel, diesel generators were only used for emergencies.

A tractor transported a strange-looking thing from the beach base on a trailer: it was made of black cast iron, with a chimney and a flywheel, exposed pipes, various valves, and pressure gauges... it looked very steampunk. Everyone gathered around curiously.

"A portable steam engine," [Ma Qianzhu][y005] answered everyone's questions simply and clearly. This thing was a power machine that used a boiler to carry a steam engine. Its structure was simple, easy to operate, and easy to maintain. It could be both mobile and fixed. It had high efficiency, good operational reliability, and could work continuously for a long time. Its uses were also particularly wide, from drainage, irrigation, rice milling, flour milling, oil pressing, to driving a generator to generate electricity or directly as the power for various industrial machinery. In this respect, it was very similar to the single-cylinder diesel engine in modern rural areas. In contrast, its disadvantage was that it was much heavier than a diesel engine, but weight was not a problem for the transmigrators. The key was that the boiler was not picky about food. It could use any fuel from wood, firewood, and low-quality coal, which could save precious diesel.

At present, portable steam engines still have a certain market even when diesel engines are very popular. The Executive Committee purchased a total of 6 portable steam engines, of which 2 were Czech-made single-furnace fire-tube horizontal compound condensing portable steam engines, with a flywheel speed of 1000 rpm and a maximum power of 290 horsepower (213.15KW). They were used to drive a generator to generate more than 200 kWh of electricity per hour. This kind of portable steam engine was fixed and had to work on a flat ground. The other 4 were 100-horsepower mobile units, which could be towed by cars, tractors, or even horses.
[y002]: /characters/y002 "Wen Desi"
[y005]: /characters/y005 "Ma Qianzhu"
[y156]: /characters/y156 "Li Xiaolü"