---
layout: post
title: Section 24: Wu De's New Task (Part 2)
category: 2
path: 2009-11-10-2-02400.md
tag: [normal]
---

"Well, I think you should continue to engage in bioengineering, which is more helpful to the great cause of transmigration."

"Just say you don't like my smoked fish." Hu Yicheng said sullenly, "Forget it, I just dissected a rabbit..."

"Rabbit?!" Wu De was startled. This was a good thing.

"I caught it yesterday," Hu Yicheng smiled like a fox. "I plan to roast it for lunch."

"Lunch?" Wu De thought with regret that he would still be on guard duty at the construction site at that time, so he would definitely not be able to eat roasted rabbit meat.

"But I can save a foreleg for you..."

Wu De was about to thank him when he suddenly remembered the old saying: to be courteous for no reason is either treacherous or thievish. This Little Hu was not familiar with him, why would he treat him to rabbit meat?

Sure enough, Hu Yicheng's fox tail was immediately exposed: "Yesterday, um, I saw you making seafood rice. Well, can I join you for meals here?"

"Sure, but you have to bring your own rice." Wu De said readily. Seafood rice would be more delicious if more was made.

"That's great, I can also learn by the way." He pointed to the direction of the back kitchen, "Team Leader Wu just came back. He caught more than ten baskets of fish this morning and is trying to figure out how to process them."

"Process them? Then I have to go and see, lest they be wasted again." This time and space was indeed rich in resources.

"I'll take you there." Hu Yicheng probably admired Wu De's cooking skills very much. When he heard that he was coming to guide the cooking, he was of course overjoyed.

In the back, a canvas shed was set up with tree trunks as pillars, and it was steamy inside. A row of large pots was set up, and people were busy lighting fires, chopping firewood, and carrying water... There were actually a few women inside! Wu De thought that fortunately he had the foresight to wear underwear, otherwise he would have become an exhibitionist.

As soon as he entered the "kitchen," he saw a guy working with his head buried in a laptop. Little Hu went up and greeted him, "[Nanhai][y009], someone is coming to cook fish for us!"

[Wu Nanhai][y009] looked up, "Ah De? You fisherman, why haven't I seen you on the boat recently?" He looked him up and down again, "I haven't seen you for a few days, you look like a native."

"I'm on guard duty. I used to be a sailor, now I'm a marine." He looked at himself. He was naked, thin, and his skin was originally dark. Now he was shirtless and barefoot, wearing only a pair of small shorts... This image was really rustic.

"[Nanhai][y009], aren't you in the agriculture group? You're not building vegetable greenhouses, raising chickens and feeding pigs, but you've become a cook?"

"It was [Xiao Zishan][y001]'s idea. That guy, in order to get rid of the trouble of managing the canteen, insisted that agriculture is a matter of eating, and said that it was natural for me to be the director of the food office." [Wu Nanhai][y009] said helplessly, "Actually, I want to take care of those rabbits and chickens. Those chickens are probably not used to the new environment and were frightened. They haven't laid any eggs since they got off the boat. I don't know when they will recover. And those pigs, they are not in good health either, they refuse to eat, which is worrying..." The deep affection he showed when he talked about the pigs, cattle, sheep, chickens, and ducks made Wu De shiver.

"The food office has a lot of women, you're in luck..."

"What luck? They are all other people's wives." [Wu Nanhai][y009] had no interest. "Besides, I'm not interested in modern women. If I want to raise one, I'll start from a loli. Speaking of which, the Executive Committee should send someone to Guangzhou to buy lolis, right?"

While they were in-depth discussing major issues such as what age a loli is considered mature and whether the direction of cultivation should be tsundere, kuudere, natural-born moe, or meganekko, a fat man came in angrily. [Wu Nanhai][y009]'s face changed greatly. He was about to bury his head deeper, but was pulled out by that person.

"Where is my 'Blue Lightning'?"

[Wu Nanhai][y009] said with a sad face, "Well... please accept my condolences... we buried it. You know, the weather here is hot..."

The man's face was startled, and his eyes were actually filled with tears. He shook his head and went out again, leaving people dumbfounded.

"Who is this?..."

[Wu Nanhai][y009] said, "This is Nikcha, who came back from Australia. This time he brought two racehorses and some carrier pigeons."

The two retired racehorses, "Aranchi" and "Blue Lightning," were both originally registered with the Australian Jockey Club, although they were a bit old. Nikcha tried to rely on his knowledge in this area and envisioned forming a cavalry in the future. But after arriving here, the harsh reality shattered his initial vision. Horses are sensitive animals. The noise after landing frightened "Blue Lightning." Although the fixed board frame forcibly restrained its restlessness, it stubbornly and repeatedly hit its head against the wooden beam on one side. It was not easy to wait until the personnel and materials were ashore, and the horses and livestock were hoisted ashore. Of course, there was no clean stable in the camp, and no horse grass could be found. In the newly established base, even the water for people to drink had to be transported from the ship, and the clean warm water that the horses needed every day could not be provided in sufficient quantities.

"He personally went to the Executive Committee, repeatedly emphasizing how precious the horse was, and demanded a supply of beans and wheat food of 'at least 5 people's portion per day'."

"And the result?"

"Needless to say? Where on the ship could there be soybeans, black beans, and barley? I only have a few seeds. We did bring some grain, but in order to save space, we brought rice."

"So he was rejected?"

"To be precise, he was politely rejected, because that bastard [Xiao Zishan][y001] kicked the ball to me again!" [Wu Nanhai][y009] said angrily, "He insisted that I have the most love for animals. I do that to obtain animal products, it's not a matter of love. Now, as long as it involves living things, it's all counted on the agriculture group."

As if to prove his words, the sound of dogs barking came from the place enclosed by a fence behind. It was one after another, and then mixed with the neighing of horses, the lowing of cattle, and the grunting of pigs. Chickens and ducks also joined in the fun. A cat with a bow on its neck came over and rubbed against [Wu Nanhai][y009]'s trouser leg.

"This is Yang Baogui's dog. He brought five of them, saying they are future military and police dogs..."

"What about the horse?" Wu De still couldn't forget about the racehorse.

"It's really embarrassing to say, he personally sent the horse and pigeons over, and also told me to take good care of these 'friends who can't speak'." [Wu Nanhai][y009] casually took a small fish from a basket on the side and threw it to the kitten. "I haven't learned how to raise mules and horses, and I don't know how to raise them well. The horse refuses to eat—"

Hu Yicheng next to him nodded, "This horse is really hard to serve. It won't eat the grass we cut, it's on a hunger strike."

"Yes, it seems to be manic and restless," [Wu Nanhai][y009] said. Nikcha himself tried everything he could but failed to calm the horse down. After a few days of not eating, plus the hot weather and flies and mosquitoes, it collapsed yesterday.

"Last night I asked Yang Baogui to take a look. He is a veterinarian and said it was incurable, and then it died. I didn't dare to tell Old Ni at that time..."

"That's a real pity. Racehorses have great bloodlines."

"Actually, it's not a pity," Hu Yicheng said with a look of disapproval. "They are all geldings. What's the use of an eighteen or nineteen-year-old old gelding?"

"I don't think it's a big deal either," [Wu Nanhai][y009] was also a little indifferent. "Racehorses can't do farm work, can't pull carts or plow the land. They are not as useful as draft horses."

"By the way, where are the fish?"

"They are all in the baskets over there." [Wu Nanhai][y009] frowned. "I don't know what to do with them. We have boiled fish every day..."

"Tomorrow we can have..."

"Shh, what are you talking about?" [Wu Nanhai][y009] nudged his mouth in the direction of the women in the shed and whispered, "Do you want to be drowned in saliva? I'm telling you, if the cat gets out of the bag, I don't know anything."

"Okay, okay."

"Rabbit meat?"

"Hey, you first help me figure out how to deal with this pile of fish." [Wu Nanhai][y009] dragged him to the side of the basket. It was dripping with water and had a salty and fishy smell of the sea, which made Wu De feel very familiar.

There were all kinds of fish in the basket, large and small, and even small sharks. This thing had a strong ammonia smell and was inedible without treatment.

"Boiling in plain water is the best way to enjoy seafood, to taste its original flavor. But now that we are using fish as a daily protein supplement, this method is too bland. My method is nothing special, it's just making seafood rice or barbecue."

"Grilled fish? We don't have spices..."

"You can do it without spices. Seafood rice is even simpler." He looked at his watch. It was almost 10 o'clock. He had to be on guard at 12 o'clock, so he could eat before he went. "I'll demonstrate."

"How many people's rice can the field cooker make at most?"

"It's for a hundred people, based on 4 liang of rice per person."

"Okay, I'll make a pot first, and then you guys can make more."

Seeing that someone was willing to volunteer, [Wu Nanhai][y009] quickly gathered all the people from the food office to be at his disposal.

Wu De instructed everyone to clean the fish and separate them according to size and species. Red-fleshed fish and white-fleshed fish should be separated, oily fish should be separated from lean fish, and they should also be graded by size.

"There are many kinds of sea fish, and we use them in different ways. When the fish are brought ashore, they should be sorted in time so that they can be easily processed."

After Wu De finished speaking, he led people to the river to collect wild vegetables. He had collected a lot nearby last night: plantain, sow thistle, wild onion, and wild perilla. He collected two bundles, washed them in the water, tied them with a thatch, and brought them back together.

A large amount of firewood was thrown into the stove, and someone was specially assigned to blow the bellows. The fire soon grew large, and the water boiled and the rice was added. While the rice was cooking, he took the lead in cleaning the fish as a demonstration.

The fish heads, tails, and guts were set aside. The fish body was chopped into small pieces, the shells were pried open and the meat was taken out, and the kelp and wild vegetables were chopped up. After two fires, the rice had expanded and turned into a soupy porridge. He threw the fish meat, shellfish meat, and kelp into the pot, stirred the rice and fish evenly with a large ladle, simmered for a few minutes, then threw in the wild vegetables and wild onions, simmered for another minute, sprinkled some salt, and a pot of seafood rice was ready.

The fish offal that was cleaned up, plus some small miscellaneous fish of little value, could be used to ferment and make fish sauce. The food office did not have a cement pool, but they found a few large water vats in the kitchen of the inspection department, so Wu De guided them to make fish sauce.

Theoretically, any fish can be used to make fish sauce, but generally only small miscellaneous fish with no economic value are used. Some of the fish offal produced during processing can also be used. Add salt in a proportion of about 1/3 of the weight of the fish, mix it evenly, cover it with a bamboo mat, and then press it with a large stone. The outside temperature during fermentation is best to be above 30 degrees Celsius. Wu De asked them to put the vats outdoors to facilitate fermentation.

"It will take a year to be ready," Wu De said, "but the taste is very delicious..."

He also taught everyone how to salt and dry fish. For a time, the back of the kitchen was filled with a foul smell and a fishy smell. Flies were attracted by the smell, and everyone could barely stand it. A girl really couldn't stand it and ran outside to vomit—she would not be able to enjoy the seafood rice for lunch today.
[y001]: /characters/y001 "Xiao Zishan"
[y009]: /characters/y009 "Wu Nanhai"