---
layout: post
title: Section 23: Wu De's New Task (Part 1)
category: 2
path: 2009-11-9-2-02300.md
tag: [normal]
---

The officials and gentry were still not at ease, so they sent a letter to General Tang in Qiongshan to see if they could persuade him to come and suppress the bandits.

However, the harassment tactics that Jinshi Liu had high hopes for did not receive the support of the local braves and militia leaders from the various villages. The local braves were not willing to fight. Everyone had heard that the local braves of Huang Family Village had been defeated even in an ambush with a numerical advantage, and their morale was even lower.

Magistrate Wu both threatened and made promises, but the local braves of the various families were still unwilling to go. They also had a thought: these people came ashore and they haven't seen them robbing, killing, or burning houses. Even if they want to build a road to attack the city, they are attacking the county town, what does it have to do with them? If they go to fight, what if they anger the sea pirates and invite retaliation? The homes of the local braves are all in the countryside, unlike the masters who can hide in the city. When forced, they would reluctantly go, make a circle from a distance, and then come back. As for the militia leaders of the various villages, as long as their homes and properties were not near the county town, they were not very enthusiastic about it. The local braves were either from the same village or clan, or they were their own tenant farmers and long-term laborers. If they died in battle, who would cultivate the land? What Lingao lacked was labor, so they did not seriously supervise the local braves to fight.

The frequent appearance of local braves along the construction site attracted the attention of the dispatched scouts. The military group personnel, because the beach camp had already taken shape and did not need too many guards, except for maintaining a three-man observation post under Lingao County, they put all other members into the security of the road construction site.

Along the road section, a watchtower was built every 3 kilometers on the road construction section. Each tower was guarded by a watchman equipped with high-power binoculars and a walkie-talkie. Below the tower was a simple fortification built by the guard group, with a one-man-high earthen wall, surrounded by barbed wire. Inside the fortification were four-wheel-drive agricultural vehicles and motorcycles, as well as a 2-watt silicon radio. Motorcycles were usually used to patrol back and forth between various points along the construction site. Once an enemy attack was discovered somewhere, the agricultural vehicles would be used as a rapid deployment tool to transport soldiers for reinforcement.

Just having soldiers was not enough, the masses had to be mobilized. The construction team was issued a batch of SKS rifles and ammunition to ensure that at each work point, in addition to 1 military group guard, there were 4-5 armed workers. In the event of a sudden attack, the work point could protect itself.

"Once you are attacked, don't move around randomly. After reporting, open fire on the spot, understand?" He Ming instructed the person in charge of each point on the construction site. "The mobile team will arrive within five minutes. If other points are attacked, you only need to report in time."

In this way, small groups of local braves who came to scout could not even get close to the construction site during the day. As soon as any suspicious person was found approaching, it would be immediately reported to the construction site headquarters, and the headquarters would dispatch patrolling off-road motorcycles to check. The guards didn't even need to open fire. The roar of the motorcycles was enough to make the other side flee in panic. The motorcycle team members, on a whim, could even chase for a long distance until the other side was exhausted and fell, and then capture them—if it weren't for Bei Wei's worry that this would lead to an enemy ambush and strictly forbid them from pursuing, they could have captured a few more. During the interrogation, they spoke an incomprehensible language and couldn't get anything out of them. They used the radio to call Xiong Buyou to be a translator. Fortunately, the Lingao dialect had not changed much over the past few hundred years. After some effort, they finally understood that they were ordered to scout. In addition, it was the old story of having an eighty-year-old mother at home and an eight-year-old child below, begging for mercy.

From the captives, the transmigrators roughly knew that the county town was in a panic because of their road construction, and was preparing for them to attack the city day and night. The fact that road construction could scare people surprised the Executive Committee a little. They had originally expected that the city would have some preparations to expel them. Obviously, the Ming officials and gentry of Lingao were more afraid of them. This first-hand information gave the Executive Committee a lot of confidence.

Because the number of captives was too small, they were originally planned to be released. However, the Executive Committee believed that this was an opportunity that could be used as a drill for the large-scale acceptance and use of local labor in the future. So they were all kept.

With the "ring-ring" of the alarm clock, Wu De was awakened from his sleep. He looked at the clock, it was 9 am.

He was on duty until 4 am yesterday and only then went to sleep. Now he could barely open his eyes. But he came to ancient times not for a vacation, but to "make a living." If he slept any longer, he was afraid that he would not even have food to eat.

As the commander of the fishing boat detachment, Wu De could have slept on the better-conditioned fishing boats, but the military group was short of manpower, and the navy personnel also had to go to the front, so he had to come ashore.

He had been in the army for many years, and was from a fishing family since he was a child. Although he worked in the city after being transferred to civilian work, his rich experience gave him a lot of life experience. He found the tents uniformly set up by the Executive Committee to be too small and too crowded. So he discussed with the medical team, found a clearing in the woods near them and cleaned it up, went to the logging yard to find about 10 long wooden poles less than 3 meters long, tied one end with a rope, and spread the other end and inserted it into the mud. He surrounded it with oilcloth, leaving an opening for entry and exit, and then covered the outside of the oilcloth with reeds. The prototype of an Indian-style tent had already appeared in front of everyone. Then he dug drainage ditches around it, and spread sand and plant ash in the tent. A decent nest appeared. The environment here was good, along the river and by the sea, and he could also watch his four fishing boats.

In order to save fuel, the four boats of the fishing boat team kept two in a state of being ready to be dispatched at any time, and the other two were temporarily sealed. One was used for fishing. The fish and shrimp resources in Longhao Bay were very rich, and they could also catch edible seaweeds such as kelp. [Wu Nanhai][y009] had been running around on the fishing boats recently, taking pictures of everything that was caught and taking notes in a small notebook.

The other one was used as a spare. There was always a group of people on duty on the boat, ready to deal with attacks from the sea at any time.

He got up, took an aluminum pot, and carried a pot of plant ash to the river. He washed his face, broke a tender willow branch, chewed it up as a toothbrush, and scrubbed his teeth. He was on duty last night and repaired the watchtower. He didn't use a sleeping bag at night. His body was already sore, his nose was stuffy, and his head ached a little.

Could I have a cold? A bad thought appeared in his mind.

He touched his forehead. It didn't seem to be hot. Fortunately. He broke a few willow branches, peeled off the bark, and threw it into his mouth to chew. Willow bark is rich in salicylic acid. Although it is irritating to the stomach, it is very effective for headaches and fevers.

He came to the riverside bathing place, took off his clothes, and went into the water. He was too tired yesterday and didn't take a bath at all. With the current sanitary conditions, if he didn't take a bath frequently, he would get skin diseases. This pure natural open-air bathhouse was another livelihood project completed by the construction team on D+1—they chose a shallow, sandy-bottomed river bay near the river mouth, hung an interception net at the mouth of the bay, and then cleaned up the debris and silt inside. The river bank was paved with sand dug from the beach. They originally wanted to make a screen or something, but later they found it too troublesome and didn't do it. Every day at five or six o'clock after work, the scene of a group of men bathing naked and chaotically in it was spectacular. Wu De, because he was on duty in shifts, had no chance to join in the fun. It is said that men bathing naked can enhance their feelings for each other. He would have to take a bath with Committee Member Ma and the others sometime.

The water in the morning was a bit cold, and Wu De couldn't help but shiver. After wetting his body and hair, he washed his hair and body with the soap he brought. After taking a bath, he washed his underwear and socks with plant ash—this was a very important hygiene issue! He was reluctant to use too much soap. Although making soap was not a high-level technology, looking at the current chaotic situation, there would be no soap factory in production in the short term. After wringing out the clothes, he hung them on a tree near the tent.

The camp's canteen was open 24 hours a day, but he had no interest in joining the fun. Besides, there was nothing worth eating in the canteen, just some seafood: kelp soup, boiled squid, boiled shellfish, boiled shrimp, boiled crab... basically all boiled seafood. At first, everyone was very interested. They even argued over the size of the crabs. After eating it for three or four days in a row, they were a little tired of it. Last night, someone cooked a pot of instant noodles, which actually attracted many people to watch with drooling mouths—not eating seafood and wanting to eat instant noodles, it was really a different time.

Wu De didn't care about eating seafood for meals, he just despised the guys in the canteen for messing around and ruining the good stuff. He went directly to a bay outside the camp. The reefs on the shore were densely covered with oysters and barnacles. Good stuff... He took out a small knife and pried off a few dozen in a short time. He didn't take much. These shellfish die as soon as they leave the water, and they stink when they die. Eating the stinky ones would cause diarrhea that would make you dizzy. Even if he lived next to the infirmary, he couldn't take such a risk. He sat directly on the reef, and in a few moves, he pried open the shells and ate all the meat and soup. It was so fresh. The farmed ones were far inferior to these.

He returned to the shed and took out his underwear from his backpack and put it on—he wore it because there were more or less some women on the beach. Otherwise, he would really want to be naked, so that his body would dry faster. The water in the thermos was gone. In the past few days, he had been boiling water himself. The machine condensate water supplied by a pipe from the ship had an indescribable taste. Fortunately, there was some tea to suppress it. A few days ago, the canteen started to supply water. The 24-hour supply of boiling water from the boiler was Wu De's favorite service, but the taste of bleach in the water was a bit strong.

After making a cup of strong tea in the kitchen, he felt much more comfortable—he didn't know if Lingao produced tea. Even if it didn't, the agriculture group should have considered such a basic crop, right?

"Chief Wu, would you like a piece of our food office's latest product?" The cook brought a black thing.

"What is this?"

"Smoked fish. This is top-grade fish meat. It was smoked all night yesterday. The taste is definitely good."

It was hard to refuse his kindness, so he had to take it. The fish meat had been smoked all night, and the moisture and oil had almost been smoked dry. The outside was black, and it was hard to the touch. The appearance was very scary.

The fish meat looked scary, and it tasted even scarier. This so-called smoked fish was actually smoked directly without being salted. He didn't know what kind of wood was used for smoking. It tasted almost the same as the willow he had just chewed. He barely swallowed it with the hot tea he had just made.

After eating the fish, he gulped down a few mouthfuls of tea to suppress the urge to vomit.

"Well, does it taste good?"

"Brother, what did you do in the past?" Wu De asked with difficulty.

"Me? I studied bioengineering. My name is Hu Yicheng." This former lumberjack, because he was good at animal anatomy, had mixed into the canteen to continue practicing his anatomy skills.
[y009]: /characters/y009 "Wu Nanhai"