---
layout: post
title: Section 20: Road Construction (Part 1)
category: 2
path: 2009-11-6-2-02000.md
tag: [normal]
---

"Committee Member Wang, it seems that road construction will not be peaceful," Mei Wan said meaningfully.

"How so?"

"I heard that the reconnaissance team that went to Lingao this morning was attacked at Bairen Tan." Mei Wan said while turning the steering wheel to avoid a large rock on the road. The common people were not very clear about the matter of the Chinese-American trio, thinking that they were also a reconnaissance team sent out.

"There is such a thing, how do you know? This matter has not yet been on the internal briefing." The situation reported by Guo Yi after his return was still in a confidential stage.

"The bodies have all floated to the river beach. Anyone who is not blind can see it. What's the secret to keep?" Mei Wan said, "New environment, new atmosphere. Some brain-dead habits should not be continued."

"What's there to be afraid of? More than a dozen people besieged three, and they were still beaten back. The three suffered minor injuries, but several of the other side died," [Wang Luobin][y003] said, pretending to be relaxed.

"You can't say that. A few stray arrows would also make people nervous. And everyone on the construction site can't work in anti-stab clothing—it's too hot."

As he drove, he reported the problems in the highway construction: there were too few people who could drive bulldozers, so only two or three of the many large machines could be operated; there were no safety helmets, and although everyone had a Type 80 steel helmet, it was too tiring to wear it to work. He suggested making a batch of wicker hats as soon as possible—they had found some willow groves by the river; drinking water, now they had to go back to the beach every day to replenish drinking water; the body lost a lot of minerals and needed salt to supplement it, but the Planning Committee was unwilling to directly allocate salt to them, saying that only the food office could get it. After much persuasion, they finally relented and said that this matter had to be certified by the medical and health group...

"Also, now our construction engineering team has only a few official members, all of whom are technical personnel. The construction workers are all unskilled laborers transferred from the basic labor group. It doesn't matter if they don't have skills, we can teach them—can't migrant workers do the same? But the problem is that they change a batch of people for us the next day—and they call it averaging the workload. Please, this is not eating from the big pot, can we do egalitarianism like this? Well, the previous batch has not been taught yet, and a new batch has come. Isn't this just messing around? Look, more than 300 people came to the construction site today, how much work did they do?"

"That's right," [Wang Luobin][y003] said thoughtfully. Indeed, most of the labor groups sent to the road construction site today had no work to do.

"We need to form a dedicated engineering team for infrastructure construction, and the personnel must be fixed," Mei Wan said. "My request is not high, 50 people will be fine. The heavy work can be done by the basic labor force."

The two of them talked about the highway all the way and came to the temporary highway construction headquarters. In order to organize the construction nearby, this place was almost 2 kilometers away from the camp. The conditions were very simple, and there was no electricity. It was just a tent.

Walking inside, the tent, which had been exposed to the sun all day, was still hot and dry. Various drawing boards and surveying equipment were stuffed everywhere. A large table was piled with rolls of survey drawings.

Mei Wan took out the planning proposal. The route was chosen on the east bank of the Wenlan River. The east bank of the river has greater development potential than the west bank. In the future, it can be connected with ports such as Hongpai and Maniao to form an integrated industrial base and port transportation. Several major industrial development zones in modern Lingao are also located on the west bank of the Wenlan River.

For the transmigrators who came to the 17th century, a complete road system was the foundation for rebuilding a modern society. Modern roads not only facilitate the flow of materials and personnel, but also greatly increase the regime's control over society. Although China was one of the first countries to establish a national road transportation network, the scope and depth of road extension were still very insufficient. Taking Hainan as an example, in the Ming Dynasty, there was only one official post road around the island. There were no relatively complete main roads in the counties, only some small paths trodden by people and cattle. Whether it was an official road or a general main road or small path, almost none of them had hardened road surfaces and drainage facilities. The so-called "three feet of dust without rain, a body of mud with rain" was also applicable in Hainan in the Ming Dynasty.

In contrast, Europe in the same era was not much better. The state of the roads before 1600 was still very poor. The road construction technology handed down from the ancient Roman era had been lost. The potholes on the road surface were filled with bundles of firewood, and even this material with very low strength and easy to rot was used as the roadbed for new roads. The idea of modern road construction came from the Italian Toglietta (around 1587). In an article, he first mentioned some basic concepts of modern roads, such as the road must be above the groundwater level, there must be drainage facilities on both sides of the road, a relatively solid roadbed should be built with gravel, and a mixed road surface of crushed stone and mortar should be laid on it—he also pointed out that this kind of road surface requires long-term maintenance, but it is much cheaper than the traditional Roman-style hard stone highway. From the 17th century, European road construction technology and road administration entered a stage of rapid development.

The transmigrators' road plan was naturally ambitious. The planned highway had a straight-line distance of 8 kilometers and a total route length of 12-16 kilometers. It was to be built according to the Class B standard for military roads. This class of military road has a traffic volume of less than 200 vehicles per day and night, with a designed maximum vehicle speed of 40 km/h. The entire roadbed width is 7 meters, the carriageway width is 6 meters, and it is a two-lane road.

"I have an opinion," [Wang Luobin][y003] said, "It may not be right. Are you putting too much effort into surveying now? Are you planning to build a permanent highway once and for all? Is it necessary now? It's fine to build a temporary road first and then slowly improve it later. The Executive Committee's idea is to open the road to Bairen Tan as soon as possible. If you go on like this, let alone D+5, you won't be able to finish it in a month, right?"

Mei Wan looked at the few people around him, and everyone was silent. Bing Feng had calculated the general amount of work and knew that [Wang Luobin][y003] was right, but here only Mei Wan and Zhuo Tianmin knew a little about road and bridge engineering. As the leader of the construction team, Mei Wan was very enthusiastic about his own plan, so everyone was embarrassed to mention the issue of the construction period.

Seeing that his plan might be rejected, Mei Wan hurriedly explained, "This kind of road is already a bit of a luxury for us, but it's better to be prepared. We'll lay a good foundation first, which will also be good for future expansion and reconstruction."

"Now that the transmigration has just begun, we have a hundred things to do. What should be simplified and what should be refined, although there is no objective and practical standard, as the actual project leaders, you don't have to be perfect from a professional point of view in everything. That is obviously impossible. Neither the technology nor the materials are very complete now. Blindly pursuing perfection is a bit like trying to get fish from a tree," [Wang Luobin][y003] said.

Zhuo Tianmin, who had been silent in the construction team, suddenly said, "I agree with Committee Member Wang's opinion. Road construction is very complicated if you want to make it complicated. You have to consider the slope of the road, the geological structure, the amount of construction, whether you need to build bridges, whether you need tunnels, and design the construction plan based on the investigation... But it can also be very simple, especially now that we are just building a temporary road. As long as we determine the start and end points of the road, the points that must be reached in the middle, and then choose a route to build a simple dirt road according to the terrain. According to the field survey, the local terrain is not complicated. Building a temporary road in this kind of place doesn't even require strict surveying and there won't be any major problems."

Zhuo Tianmin's speech made Mei Wan's face turn ugly at once. This man, who had a bachelor's degree in mechatronics and was a registered consulting engineer and constructor, had always kept a low profile in the group because he had signed up late and had to take care of his son, but his professional ability was obvious to all. This had always made Mei Wan a little wary.

He had originally wanted to show off his skills to the Executive Committee through this project, and at the same time build up his reputation among the masses—it was a very easy way to win the favor of the people by building high-quality public buildings.

But now, his idea was obviously not favored by [Wang Luobin][y003], and was refuted by Zhuo Tianmin on the spot, and he was even given the evaluation of "lacking a sense of the big picture."

"There are hundreds of people on the beach now, and so much material and machinery. These things must get to Bairen Tan as soon as possible! Our current task is to be able to get there, not how to get there. Don't put the cart before the horse." He stood up. "I will give you a reply to all your requests tonight, but the plan must be redone. By D+6, the convoy must reach Bairen Tan!"

After the meeting, Mei Wan, like a frost-bitten eggplant, reorganized and revised the plan according to [Wang Luobin][y003]'s request. The new highway was a simple dirt road. This kind of road surface was only suitable for a small number of vehicles and could be closed on rainy days. Considering that not many vehicles would pass on this highway, and it was after the Mid-Autumn Festival in the lunar calendar, the rainy season in Lingao had ended, so the rain would not have a great impact on driving.

The next day, the road construction project finally got on the right track. Adhering to the guiding principle of "surveying, designing, and constructing at the same time," a temporarily formed road construction team replaced the original noisy and unproductive basic labor group.

Because they did not have the hydrological data of the Wenlan River in the 17th century, they did not know its historical highest water level. Therefore, when defining the route, the standard for the distance from the river bank was based on the 100-year flood standard of the 20th century plus an additional 10% margin.

The roadbed was of the filled-earth type, which was suitable for low-lying sections in plains and hilly areas. In order to reduce the transportation link, it was decided to use the soil from the roadside ditches as much as possible, and the borrow pits were only used as a supplement.

The construction team first calculated the width of the roadside ditch based on the width of the vehicle, and then measured the sideline position of the ditch outward from the roadbed side pile according to this width. Generally, lime was used to mark the line or stakes were driven and ropes were pulled to determine the sideline. Mei Wan was reluctant to use lime, so he used plant ash to mark the line instead.

The soil dug out from the roadside ditch, the shallow surface layer was paddy soil or other soil rich in humus. The construction team did not want this kind of soil. It was best to use clay and sandy soil to build the roadbed. These two kinds of soil were not lacking along the construction site and were very convenient to use. Because the location was along the river, there was a lot of sandy soil, and the soil was mixed with many pebbles and shells. Directly filling them into the roadbed was not good for the overall strength of the roadbed. Zhuo Tianmin, who was arranged to be in charge of soil borrowing, set up a sand and stone screen for construction at the soil borrowing site to screen out the stones and shells in the soil. The pebbles could be used as building materials, and Mei Wan planned to use the shells to burn lime—but he only knew that shells could be burned, and did not know how to burn them.

The screened soil was used to fill the roadbed. The cross-section of the entire roadbed was stepped, and it was laid in alternating layers of clay and sandy soil. The soil was compacted twice with a road roller for every 20 cm of filling. This continued until the roadbed was filled to 1 meter. Then the roadside ditches on both sides where the soil had been taken were leveled to facilitate drainage, and the entire roadbed was roughly completed.

In contrast, the work on the road surface was more complicated. A dirt road surface was required to be flat and dense, not loose when the weather was dry, and with little dust when driving; and it should be able to drain water quickly when it rained. None of these engineering and technical personnel had ever worked on road and bridge projects. Mei Wan stayed up all night to review the textbooks and technical materials he had brought with him.
[y003]: /characters/y003 "Wang Luobin"