---
layout: post
title: Thoughts on Being Featured
category: 0
path: 2009-8-21-0-00200.md
tag: [normal]
---

Thanks to the love of my readers and editors, "Lingao Qiming" has finally been featured on the front page.

The writing of "Lingao Qiming" has been going on for more than three years now. Looking back, I realize that I have come such a long way and have been welcomed by so many book friends. I am very happy and also very ashamed.

"Lingao Qiming" is my first work for entertainment purposes. Before this, I was just a fan of historical transmigration novels and never thought of writing a web novel myself.

From a creation that started on a whim, I found that I had embarked on a creative path from which I could not turn back. The feelings during this period are difficult to express in words; even "a mixture of all flavors" cannot fully express all my feelings.

Because this is my first time writing a web novel, I am very unfamiliar with the rhythm of the novel, character development, and the handling of plot points. Sometimes it is too slow and stiff, sometimes I can't grasp the rhythm of the story, and sometimes the time periods are not well arranged... These are all problems in the writing of Lingao.

Some people have commented that Lingao is a "transmigration technical manual," and I readily agree with this--this may also be the biggest feature of "Lingao": when writing "Lingao," I most hoped to simulate as realistically as possible the difficulties that transmigrators would face in rebuilding society in a new environment and the methods they could adopt. Of course, no matter how much we want to make the story "more realistic," the "golden finger" is still indispensable.

Writing Lingao, for me personally, is both a task and a burden, but also a learning experience. How to replicate an industrial society? How to transform society? These questions all require me to consult materials and books that I would never touch in my daily life. It has greatly broadened my horizons. It can be said that through the creation of Lingao, I have gained a lot.

Regarding the origin of "Lingao Qiming," everyone may know that it came from a group transmigration role-playing event on SC. The basic settings all come from the background materials of this role-playing game. In addition, "Lingao Qiming" has also drawn many creative ideas and concepts from [Wen Desi][y002]'s "The Transmigration of a Minor Employee" and Jiao Xian's (绞线) "Traveling with the Song Dynasty" (《与宋同行》).

During its creation, "Lingao Qiming" has received enthusiastic support from many book friends, especially the strong support from book friends on the SC forum and Longkong (LK) forum. They have provided a large amount of technical data, historical background materials, plot points, and creative ideas for the work of Lingao. In a sense, Lingao is a collective work that has concentrated the efforts of many people. I would like to express my gratitude here. Thank you all for your long-term support of Lingao. I also hope that book friends will continue to support the work of Lingao.

Thank you to my readers, and thank you to Qidian.

Due to my work, the updates for Lingao have long been around 3,000 characters per chapter. For the time being, this is unlikely to change. To thank Qidian and my book friends for their love, I will update 5,000 characters daily for the week before and after being featured.
[y002]: /characters/y002 "Wen Desi"