---
layout: post
title: Section 33: Lingao's Counterattack (Part 3)
category: 2
path: 2009-11-19-2-03300.md
tag: [normal]
---

"I'm out of bullets!"

"Bullets, where are the bullets!"

Before the battle, everyone was issued 90 rounds of ammunition. The SKS-D rifle used the AK's 30-round magazine. Everyone was confident that with such equipment, even the Manchu iron cavalry would be smashed to pieces—that was true, but obviously not in their hands. Seeing that the enemy did not fall to the ground and die with the sound of gunfire as in games and movies, and then collapse into a rout, but gritted their teeth and charged forward with wild cries, many people immediately panicked. Some people forgot to grab their magazines, and others fumbled for their magazines on their bodies, but couldn't pull them out.

"Everyone, don't panic, hold on!" He Ming ran along the earthen rampart, shouting. He knew very well that these people's military training was not even as good as that of new recruits, and they had never fought a real battle. It was inevitable that they would lose their composure temporarily, so he ran back and forth desperately to maintain morale.

Taking advantage of this lull in the firepower, the local braves had already pushed many wheelbarrows full of sandbags and earth bags to the bottom of the earthen rampart. The archers and crossbowmen, under the cover of the wheelbarrows, fired a volley of arrows. Someone was hit by an arrow and fell to the ground, howling. He Ma, with the medical team, was just about to go over to rescue him when he was suddenly pushed hard. Then he felt a pain in his head and found that a guy had thrown his rifle at his head and was running away in a panic.

"Come back! You coward!" He Ma roared. Fortunately, he had a steel helmet on his head. Otherwise, if this eight-and-a-half-jin thing hit his head, wouldn't it crack his skull?

As he was roaring, a puff of white smoke suddenly spewed out from outside the barbed wire fence, and the sound of cannons roared. He Ma subconsciously lowered his head and only heard a clanging sound on his steel helmet. He was also hit by something on his body, which was very painful. He looked up and saw that a person had already fallen in front of him from the earthen rampart, his face covered in blood, which was very frightening. When he dragged him, he found that he was still groaning, and knew that he could still be saved.

The volley from the two Tiger Squatting Cannons pulled to the front of the earthen rampart overwhelmed the already flustered defenders. Although the range and power of this kind of cannon were very limited, when they fired at the same time at a distance of less than fifty paces, even stones and scrap iron had enough lethality. Many people were injured and fell to the ground immediately. The transmigrators, who were facing a real battlefield for the first time, did not show any signs of being a badass, calmly rushing up and cutting people down with their swords. The roar of the two small iron cannons firing stones and scrap iron became the last straw that crushed their fragile minds. Seeing the people around them screaming in pain on the ground with their faces covered in blood, someone finally couldn't hold on anymore and ran away screaming and crawling. He Ming was so angry that he wanted to take out his pistol and shoot a few of them on the spot. If there was a platoon of PLA at this time—he thought, even with a Type 38 rifle, they could defeat this group of poorly clothed local braves in a minute—they had underestimated the enemy's will to fight and overestimated the psychological endurance of modern people.

"Fire, fire!" He Ming helped a person who was having trouble with his magazine pull out the magazine and put it on for him. "Keep firing for me!"

Some of the most courageous local braves had already climbed onto the earthen rampart. He Ming gathered the seven or eight people from the military group and fired continuously in concentrated fire. The 30-round magazine of the SKS-D gave them a great advantage. The hot rifle casings fell to the ground, and the local braves gathered outside the breach immediately fell in a heap, and the rest fled in disarray.

This small counterattack stabilized the battle line, and the bullets from all sides began to become dense. Taking advantage of this opportunity, he and other members of the military group went back and forth to encourage them, and calmed down the emotions of the defenders who were originally a little flustered. Li Jun kicked and punched the guys who had run away and drove them back up. The medical team quickly dragged the injured people on the ground into the house to prevent the scene of blood from affecting morale.

"Everyone, don't panic. Be careful not to expose your heads too much. Don't stop shooting. The enemy can't get up..." He Ming walked along the earthen rampart, shouting.

Huang Shoutong wanted to insist on attacking one more time. The local braves he brought had already rushed to the bottom of the earthen rampart, but now they were all caught in the crossfire between several camps. People were constantly falling, and the local braves suffered heavy casualties. The shooting came from all directions. Obviously, the pirates' firearms had a longer range than any of the Ming Dynasty's. Moreover, they were often shot at from high places, and the power was extremely great. Many people's skulls were gone after a gunshot.

The gunners were subjected to concentrated fire and were all killed in an instant. The archers and crossbowmen who were planning to support the assault on the rampart were killed before they had a chance to shoot their arrows. They cleverly hid under the carts piled with sandbags and earth baskets. The dense bullets rained down on the local braves like a torrential downpour. The local braves only held on for a moment under the earthen rampart before they were scattered by the rain of bullets. They had never been able to accurately estimate the range of the SKS rifle, so many people were shot down on their way back.

When He Ming saw that the local braves were beginning to flee, he quickly ordered a ceasefire with the walkie-talkie. Even so, the scattered gunshots did not stop for a while.

"Why the ceasefire?" A person ran over with an SKS. "It was just getting exciting!"

He Ming saw that this guy was the one who had just thrown away his rifle and run away, and was then caught by Li Jun from behind. Seeing his excited look with his nostrils flaring and his face glowing, and then thinking of his dejected look just now, he couldn't help but shake his head.

"We want prisoners, not dead people." He turned around and called the mobile team, telling them to go out and intercept the fleeing local braves.

The appearance of the agricultural vehicles made the remaining local braves turn pale with fright. Originally, in preparation for a possible battle with the "demon vehicles," they had all brought bottles filled with gunpowder and oil, and had even sprinkled a lot of chicken blood on them. But at this time, who could still think of these things? They just ran for their lives. Unfortunately, how could a person on the flat river beach be faster than a four-wheel-drive agricultural vehicle? Soon, after the agricultural vehicles outflanked and surrounded them and shot down a few local braves in parallel, most of them were crowded together on the river beach. Xiong Buyou repeatedly shouted "Those who surrender will be spared," and most of them knelt down and surrendered. Only a few who ran fast or were good swimmers escaped.

The rout was so rapid that they didn't even have time to release the black smoke for retreat. He Ming left some people to clean up the battlefield and dispatched eight agricultural vehicles with more than fifty people to cut off the enemy's retreat at Bopu.

The attack on Bopu began at noon. Because they had received a warning long ago, the logging teams and the labor groups that were originally collecting sea stone flowers and oysters in the surrounding area had already retreated into the camp. Fu Baiwen, on the one hand, ordered the militia to wave their flags, and on the other hand, he kept firing the three-eyed blunderbusses he had brought. In addition, he desperately beat gongs and drums, creating a huge momentum. Just as he was directing everything from a hillside that he thought was safe enough, the attendant beside him suddenly had a hole in his chest and fell down, which scared him so much that he turned and ran. When the militia saw that the master had suddenly run away, they also dropped the various weapons in their hands and fled in all directions. Therefore, they ran earlier than Huang Shoutong's local braves, and of course, they did not send out the retreat signal.

However, whether it was sent or not, it made no difference at this time. The left and right routes planned by Liu Dalin and Huang Shoutong had now all been routed. If one were to say who was more brilliant, then Fu Baiwen's timely escape at least saved most of the militia of the right route army, saving them from being captured—He Ming's capture mobile team only caught some of the old and weak.

After the battle, Bairen Tan was filled with the smell of blood. From under the earthen rampart of the administrative area to the edge of the trench, there were many corpses. The otaku who had experienced a "fierce battle" dragged their rifles, all looking a little dazed. Did I kill someone? It seemed a little unbelievable, but the dead bodies all over the ground clearly told them what they had done. Some were vomiting, some were covering their faces and crying, and some were laughing wildly for no reason...

It seems that the issue of psychological intervention for the transmigrators also needs to be put on the agenda, [Xiao Zishan][y001] thought as he walked towards the administrative area. He had watched the battle from the vehicle and material yard today—in the past few days, the transmigrators had begun to implement an emergency system. There were several executive committee members in any one camp, instead of everyone being concentrated together. This was to avoid being wiped out in one fell swoop.

On the battlefield, the members of the military group, holding SKS rifles with bayonets fixed, cautiously turned over every corpse. If there were still signs of movement or life, the medical team would move them to the side. Unless they were lightly wounded, they would not receive immediate treatment. Only those who could endure for a sufficient amount of time would be treated by the medical team. Besides, many of the transmigrators were also injured in this battle.

"Are there any casualties?" Seeing that Shi Niaoren was also there, [Xiao Zishan][y001] asked.

"There are no deaths at present, but many are injured," Shi Niaoren said. "Most of them were injured by the Tiger Squatting Cannon. Many people were injured in the face and limbs."

"Oh?"

"Everyone has anti-stab vests and steel helmets on their heads. What's the use of this kind of small iron cannon?" Shi Niaoren pointed his chin contemptuously at the cannon carriage that had fallen under the earthen rampart. The two short and ugly small iron cannons were overturned on the ground. The rough iron quality and ugly shape made it difficult to associate them with the word "cannon."

"From a preliminary look, we are quite lucky. No one's eyes were injured. The most seriously injured one was hit by an arrow in the arm," Shi Niaoren gestured. "His arm will not be very useful in the future."

[Xiao Zishan][y001] was silent: this was better than being disabled. But he couldn't say that.

The casualty report came out soon:

A total of twenty-one transmigrators were injured, including one who was burned by recklessly grabbing the barrel of an SKS rifle.

In contrast, the attacking local braves left more than a hundred corpses on the battlefields of the two places alone, and more than thirty wounded were abandoned. These wounded were seriously injured and most of them would die in one or two days. More than one hundred and thirty people were captured and were now detained on the river beach, looking dejected.

A lot of things were captured, including many swords, spears, bows, and crossbows, as well as two Tiger Squatting Cannons, gongs, drums, flags, rough wheelbarrows, and even several carts of gunpowder and scrap iron used as cannonballs. These things were all counted and put into storage by the personnel of the Planning Committee. The weapons could be used to arm the native troops in the future, or at worst, they could be melted down. The cannons and scrap iron were useless, so they would be used as raw materials for the future steel group. The wheelbarrows were very useful and could be used on the construction site. As for the gunpowder, although the people in the chemistry group all expressed their contempt for it after seeing it, it was still stored.

The biggest gain for the transmigrators was the capture of three horses. Hainan itself did not produce horses, they were all introduced from the southwest. These horses were not large and might not be suitable for cavalry, but they were fine as draft animals. There were also five or six dead horses, which were all handed over to the agriculture group for disposal.
[y001]: /characters/y001 "Xiao Zishan"