---
layout: post
title: Chapter 341: The New Executive Committee
category: 3
path: 2011-3-25-3-34100.md
tag: [normal]
---

"I oppose this approach," Ji Xin subsequently spoke in opposition. "The point that private property is inviolable can greatly enhance the loyalty of the natives to us. In the future, our country will be built on the labor and struggle of the natives. If we don't even have the basic sincerity to protect their private property, how can we guarantee their loyalty?"

Wu Nanhai and Ye Yuming also expressed their support for his motion, strongly demanding that the legitimate rights and interests of the natives be effectively guaranteed, and that it be clearly stated in the common program that the right to private property of the natives should not be violated under any pretext.

Jiang Qiuyan's motion received the support of the majority. Although Ji Xin rose to speak, eloquently stating the importance and significance of protecting the legitimate rights and interests of the natives, he was still defeated in the vote.

The discussion on the "Common Program" was much more heated than Ma Jia had anticipated. The discussion on many of its details lasted for three days. From the initial indifference of everyone to the later enthusiasm, as everyone became more familiar with the rules of procedure, they also became more proficient in using them. The level and efficiency of the entire general assembly's proceedings were greatly improved. Many transmigrators felt for the first time that real participation in politics was very interesting, not the imaginary, vague, and rambling talk or just listening to reports and raising hands.

The meeting became more and more lively. The transmigrators, who were used to expressing their opinions through complaints, curses, and KUSO, all expressed their own views, trying to gain the upper hand through debate. "I propose," "I second," "I oppose," "I support," "The vote begins"... these words were constantly spoken loudly.

According to Ma Jia's standards, the meeting was very successful. By noon on the fourth day, the second general assembly finally passed the revised "Common Program."

In the final stage of the meeting, the organizational form of the Transmigration Group's political power was discussed, and a consensus was finally reached on a new organizational form.

The supreme power organ of the transmigrator state is the Senate, which holds a regular meeting at the end of each year. The Senate has a Standing Committee and a Court of Honor. The Standing Committee exercises some of the duties of the Senate during the recess. One member of the Standing Committee is elected from every ten elders. Of course, the premise is that he must be in Lingao and can attend meetings at any time. Elders who are stationed abroad or need to travel frequently are not convenient to serve in this position.

The members of the Senate Standing Committee do not receive any form of remuneration, nor are they full-time personnel. Except for being exempt from their regular work during the meetings of the Standing Committee, they do not enjoy any special treatment. The term of office of a Standing Committee member is only one year, and they cannot be re-elected. There must be an interval of more than 3 years between two terms.

The Court of Honor is just a name and has no permanent staff. It is only convened when needed. To ensure the fairness of the court, the Court of Honor adopts a twelve-person jury system.

The administrative structure was adjusted. The Executive Committee system was continued in the overall structure, but the original system structure was comprehensively adjusted. A Central Political Affairs Council was specially established as the daily administrative work organization. In addition, a special organization in charge of justice—the Arbitration Tribunal—was established, completing the separation of the three powers in the form of institutional settings.

During the discussion on institutional adjustment, Shan Liang proposed a motion, demanding the establishment of "Tribunes of the People" or "Supervisory Committee Members," specifically responsible for supervising the administrative agencies, and at the same level as the Senate, the Central Political Affairs Council, and the Arbitration Tribunal.

"Power without supervision will inevitably lead to corruption!" Shan Liang waved his arms on the speaker's podium, full of passion. "There must be a high-level, independent, and specialized supervisory agency to review all actions of the administrative agencies at all times. In the supervision of power, we must adopt a 'presumption of guilt'!"

Ma Jia couldn't help but smile. Shan Liang was really good at learning and applying—he had heard that Shan Liang had recently borrowed many books on law and political science to read.

After Shan Liang's speech, Ma Jia arranged for An Xi to come on stage to refute. An Xi easily explained from a legal perspective that Shan Liang's proposal was meaningless.

"Gentlemen, the Senate is essentially a parliament. What is the most important power of a parliament?" An Xi spoke eloquently. "Simply put, the main powers of a parliament include legislative power, financial power, and the power to supervise the administration." He emphasized the last "power to supervise the administration." "In other words, an important duty of the Senate is to supervise the administrative agencies, so there is no need to set up the positions of Tribunes of the People or Supervisory Committee Members. First, we are not 'the people,' so we don't need anyone to 'protect the people'; second, we elders ourselves have the power to supervise, so there is no need to specifically find one or a few people to do this—who can guarantee that these so-called full-time supervisors can perform their duties well? And who will supervise them? My speech is over."

Shan Liang's motion was quickly rejected without even entering into more debate. Finally, the general assembly passed the new organizational form of the political power organ by secret ballot.

The new version of the Executive Committee is composed of 9 members, each in charge of one aspect. The 9 committee members are directly responsible to the Senate.

These 9 committee members are:

Speaker of the Senate: in charge of the Senate, presiding over the overall work of the Senate, responsible for the daily work of the Standing Committee, and supervising the work of the Executive Committee.

Chairman of the Executive Committee: presiding over the overall work of the transmigrator regime, concurrently serving as the commander-in-chief of the armed forces of the transmigrator state, and representing the state externally.

Secretary of State: in charge of the economy, presiding over the overall work of the Central Political Affairs Council.

President of the Planning Council: in charge of the long-term planning and layout of the transmigrator state's economy, politics, and military, and responsible for material management and allocation.

Chief Manufacturing Officer: in charge of industry and technology.

Colonial and Trade Officer: in charge of all overseas colonization activities and trade.

Chief Financial Officer: in charge of finance and financial work.

Chief of Military Affairs: in charge of military construction and organization.

Representative of the Arbitration Tribunal: in charge of justice, confidentiality, and political security work.

In addition to these 9 people, the Director of the Executive Committee Office is also a member of the Executive Committee, but he only has an observer status at meetings, with the right to speak but not to vote. The Director of the Executive
Office is in charge of the daily affairs of the political power organs, the life and welfare of all the transmigrators, and also manages the organization and personnel work of the transmigrators, which is equivalent to concurrently serving as the head of the organization department.

All 10 members of the Executive Committee are political officials. Any transmigrator who is at least twenty-one years old and meets the requirements of the position can run as a candidate. The term of office of a committee member is four years, and they can be re-elected once. After being re-elected once, they must wait for one term before being elected again.

All positions in the Executive Committee are civilian. No active military personnel may hold office, nor may they run as a candidate.

The officials of the various agencies below the Executive Committee are administrative officials, who are appointed by the superior departments and officials. The method of appointment will be determined by the "Cadre Management Regulations" that are being formulated.

All the bureaucratic institutions of the Transmigration Group: committees, ministries, departments, offices, etc., regardless of their current affiliation, are all under the system of the Central Political Affairs Council, except for the judicial system.

The original various committees, ministries, offices, and divisions have been sorted out and reorganized, and their respective affiliations have been determined. The levels of the various independent operating departments have also been stipulated: the first level is ministries and committees, followed by general administrations, bureaus, and general companies; and finally, offices.

The last topic of the general assembly was about the 8 unofficial transmigrators. Xiao Zishan proposed a motion, suggesting that these 8 unofficial transmigrators be given equal status and rights, and that their share certificates be reissued.

In fact, there was not much debate on this issue itself. Most transmigrators believed that since they were all modern people and had come together in the same boat, it was unnecessary to artificially distinguish between official and unofficial, and it was even suspected of deliberately worsening their relationship.

But this proposal was immediately opposed by Xiao Bailang. Xiao Bailang's opposition was just one sentence repeated over and over: "Whether they are white skins or bananas, they are all unreliable. Bananas should be shot immediately! The foreign women should be public property! To be the sex slaves of all the elders!" He was passionate, and his handsome, fair face was flushed red.

Ding Ding was furious again and immediately jumped out to object: "I object to Xiao Bailang's speech, and I am ashamed that there are people in our team who use racism as an excuse to undermine unity! I propose that he be immediately expelled from the general assembly!"

Ma Jia quickly reminded, "Please discuss around the topic." Then he quickly gave a look to An Xi in the venue, telling him to be ready to deal with it at any time.

"White skins always favor white skins. Without the United States, they might go and join the British. They definitely don't want to see a China that has mastered civilization for several hundred years rise up!" Liu Zheng, this Han chauvinist, immediately jumped out to second it. "Those who are not of our race must have a different heart!"

"Please address the specific issues in your speech, and don't just make general comments!" Ma Jia said.

"These few foreigners, whether they are genuine white skins or bananas, can be used, but their use must be controlled. They cannot be given important power, let alone access to key departments. Now they are all in key departments! It's too dangerous," Liu Zheng said loudly. "The race must be pure! The group must not be mixed with other ethnic groups! Why did we come to the 17th century after so much hardship? Isn't it to rebuild the great Han mountains and rivers? These white-skinned robbers, wild boar skins, and all other barbaric ethnic groups should be completely eliminated and made extinct..."

A "buzz" immediately rose from the venue. Dr. Zhong Lishi couldn't sit still at this time and raised his hand to ask to speak.

"I object to this kind of racist remark!" Dr. Zhong was very angry. "And I object even more to the spreading of such remarks within our group. I want to make it clear here that my own ancestors were from the Bordered Red Banner of the Manchu! Are you going to shoot me too?! And I can also reveal that Lin Baiguang, who risked his life for the Transmigration Group a few months ago and persuaded the remnants of Zhu Cailao's forces to join Lingao, is a descendant of the banner people stationed in Taiwan."
[y001]: /characters/y001 "Xiao Zishan"
[y009]: /characters/y009 "Wu Nanhai"