---
layout: post
title: Chapter 111: The Annual Meeting
category: 4
path: 2011-8-24-4-11100.md
tag: [normal]
---

He had also thought about the content of the annual meeting. First was the dinner, which was best in the form of a buffet to reduce the feeling of official hierarchy.

A buffet did not have too many etiquette requirements, and everyone could eat, drink, and talk relatively freely, which was much more equal in form.

"I'm afraid you also feel that our group has a tendency towards bureaucratization," Fang Fei said, expressing his feelings—he did not think that this frankness would provoke Xiao Zishan—this person had always appeared with a humble image and probably regarded listening to harsh but honest advice as a kind of cultivation. "Although there is the Senate, and the idea that all veterans are equal, the leaders who occupy high positions are becoming more and more like leaders. Everyone is always a little resentful."

"Hmm, hmm," Xiao Zishan responded noncommittally. "Not bad."

"So at the annual meeting, we should downplay the concept of official positions and only elect a host to be responsible for the process of the annual meeting, without having leaders give speeches." Fang Fei had long thought about it. This annual meeting had to be relaxed and pleasant, not serious. As for the host, it was even more important not to ask a veteran who held a high public office to be the host. This would only ruin the atmosphere.

"I propose to ask a lively girl to be the host. It will be very exciting to host."

"What about after dinner?"

"Of course, it's a literary and artistic performance," Fang Fei said with a smug smile. He was very experienced in creating "new style" cultural and entertainment activities.

He said in a low and mysterious voice, "There is a very good segment in the program, a cosplay show."

"Oh? Is it cosplay of 'Bikō', 'Street Fighter' and the like?" Xiao Zishan suddenly became energetic.

"That's right. I didn't expect Director Xiao to have research on cosplay." No matter how you looked at it, Xiao Zishan was in his early thirties, but he didn't expect him to have some understanding of this aspect.

"Actually, I prefer 'Dead or Alive'," Xiao Zishan continued to state his views on cosplay in a serious manner. "To do cosplay, first, you need to have a good figure, and second, you need to not be afraid of showing skin. With these two points, you can basically kill it..."

"You are really very knowledgeable," Fang Fei nodded and flattered him, thinking that Director Xiao's cosplay concept was quite vulgar and had no pursuit. He had always advocated that cosplay must express the inner character and temperament of the character.

However, for a planner who had participated in the company's live demonstrations at ChinaJoy for many years, Xiao Zishan's words were not wrong, at most they were expressed too vulgarly.

As for who would do the cosplay, Fang Fei had also thought about it. The female veterans were of course the most suitable in terms of temperament, but there were not many of them, and most of them had boyfriends. In order to avoid trouble, Fang Fei decided not to bother them—although there were quite a few lively and beautiful girls among them. According to Fang Fei's observation of women, if these girls were asked to perform cosplay, they would most likely be happy to do it. But he felt that it was not worth the risk of making their boyfriends unhappy. The life secretaries were not a big deal.

"Is the difference in temperament a bit big?"

"The quality is still good after training," Fang Fei had once taught in the life secretary training class and believed that after a period of training, the life secretaries had made considerable improvements in their body shape, appearance, and temperament. With a little more intensive training, they would perform very well.

In the evening, an open-air barbecue and a dance party were arranged. The location was planned to be on the beach near Wu De's original villa in Bopu.

Fang Fei further proposed that local large households and gentry could also be invited to participate in the annual meeting, just like some companies invite major customers to their annual meetings, to further strengthen their relationship. It could also fully demonstrate the beauty of the "Australian lifestyle" to them and encourage them to learn this lifestyle.

"I don't object to letting some friendly natives participate," Xiao Zishan said. "I'm just worried that some segments might be a bit shocking."

"According to the report from the Guangzhou station, the people of the Ming Dynasty are no more conservative in their enjoyment than the people of the 21st century," Fang Fei said. "Have you read the article 'A Report on the Private Lives of Guangzhou Officials, Gentry, and Large Households' written by Pei Lixiu?"

"No," Xiao Zishan seemed to remember receiving this document, but he was too busy to read it.

"In terms of imagination, hmm, I'm afraid we are not necessarily better than the rich people of the 17th century."

Xiao Zishan said, "Is the content of this report on the same level as the American 'Lewinsky Investigation Report'?"

"I can only say that the two cannot be compared on the same day."

"Is that so? Then I have to take a good look," Xiao Zishan said. "I agree with your annual meeting plan. Once it's announced and passed, let's get it done as soon as possible. Many veterans will be going on long trips soon."

"No one will object to the announcement. This is my specific plan, and also a list of materials needed." Fang Fei quickly handed over the document.

Xiao Zishan took it and looked at it: at the back of the document was a list of various materials, equipment, and materials needed, a total of more than thirty pages.

"Good heavens, that's a lot of stuff," Xiao Zishan said with a smile and signed his name. "I can't guarantee that Wu De will give it to you."

"He will, he will. He can't let everyone be unhappy."

After the annual meeting plan was approved, Fang Fei immediately began to implement it. He still had a few "Singing Holy Songs" competitions to hold. He planned to prepare while competing, and hold the annual meeting after the final competition and award ceremony next week.

He first went to Bairen City and invited Pei Lixiu and Zheng Shangjie, who were idle at home, to help. These two were bored and were very excited when they heard about the annual meeting. They hit it off immediately.

"I've been wanting to hold an annual meeting for a long time," Zheng Shangjie's attitude was very positive. She said very generously, "The Feiyun can be used as the bar and stage center for the beach dance party!"

The Feiyun was the luxury yacht rented from the United States by the North American branch. Because the North American branch had put in the most effort in obtaining weapons and various contraband, this yacht was not requisitioned and made public according to the principle of requisition, and had always been used as a residence by the families of the North American branch.

Because the Feiyun was a luxury yacht, not only were the living facilities complete, but the entertainment and enjoyment facilities were also first-class. However, in order to avoid arousing jealous anger, the people of the North American branch rarely used these facilities and only maintained them on time to ensure that they could be used.

"What good things are on this boat?" Fang Fei became curious.

"There are many good things," Zheng Shangjie laughed. "Asking me to help with the annual meeting is definitely the most correct choice in your life."

A small boat emitting black smoke, making a "tut-tut" sound, was pulling more than ten small boats and was slowly moving on the Nandu River.

On each small boat, there was a canvas cover. However, from the exposed edges, one could see that they were loaded with black coal.

This kind of boat team had not appeared for a long time. Its reappearance seemed to be announcing something.

In the second to last position of the boat team, there was a small boat with only a cloth canopy.

"After the war, I suddenly feel that everything is different."

The person who said this was Tang Menglong, who had been ordered to return to report on his work and attend the annual meeting.

He was lying on a rattan chair, his eyes fixed on the mountains and rivers on both sides of the Nandu River. Tang Menglong had been continuing his mining work at the Jiazi coal mine throughout the anti-encirclement campaign. Although he was well aware that the government army would be defeated and that it was unlikely that the government army would deal with his Jiazi coal mine, the feeling of being isolated behind enemy lines was not good. He had to communicate with Lin Gao via radio every day, but the native radio operator at the radio station obviously had no understanding of his "homesickness." It was rare for him to have Shao Zong by the radio so that they could chat for a while.

Since the coal transportation had stopped, the scale of coal mining had been reduced a lot. Besides drilling the miners every day, Tang Menglong organized the miners to quarry stones and cut wood, and engaged in large-scale infrastructure construction. Although he had Jiang Wenli by his side to warm his bed at night, he obviously had nothing to communicate with this country girl. After a long time, he also felt very bored.

"I can finally go back to Lin Gao." Tang Menglong stretched his body. This kind of life of mining in the wilderness was too uncomfortable. This time when he returned to report on his work, he must lobby the head of the remote exploration department. He would rather go back to do field exploration than be the head of the Jiazi coal mine.

He glanced at Jiang Wenli, who was sitting on a small stool at his feet. This sixteen-year-old girl was dozing off with a tired face. A few days ago, she had stammered and told him that she had missed her period for two months.

Could she be pregnant? Tang Menglong thought, a little incredulous—because in the past three years, no veteran's woman had been pregnant—of course, it was also a fact that most veterans had no women at all, but even for those veterans who had wives or girlfriends, there was no news of pregnancy.

He didn't expect this first prize to fall on his head. Tang Menglong was both proud and excited. Then he thought that the Jiazi coal mine was really too boring. After dark, there was no entertainment except for bed sports. With such frequent "bed sports," it was hard not to get pregnant. To be cautious, he decided to take Jiang Wenli back to Lin Gao for a check-up—he should have brought some pregnancy test strips with him.

If he had a child, what name should he give it? He didn't know if it was a boy or a girl. Tang Menglong looked at the girl who was sleeping soundly leaning against his knees. Thinking that he was about to have a child in this time and space, he had an unreal dream-like feeling.

The Haijia Wharf, which had been quiet for several months, had returned to its former busy state. The coal transported from Jiazi had gradually piled up again, waiting to be shipped out. Chen Tong was already waiting for him at the wharf. In the past few months, Lin Baiguang had specially sent Chen Tong to be stationed at the Haijia Wharf. In addition to guarding this important industry, he also provided a large amount of intelligence on the movements of government ships and personnel. Now his task was to continue to monitor the movements of the remnants of the government army after they retreated to Qiongshan, and at the same time to ensure the continued transportation of coal from the Jiazi coal mine.

"How is the situation in Qiongshan?" Tang Menglong asked as soon as he landed.

Before setting out, Tang Menglong had received instructions from the Lin Gao Intelligence Bureau on the radio: he was to directly listen to Chen Tong's oral report on the situation in Qiongshan County.

"Isn't this Lin Baiguang's business?"

"This is Lin Baiguang's request," Wang Yan said on the radio. "Consider it an inspection."

"Then what should I ask?"

"Ask whatever you want," Wang Yan said. "Just hand in the transcript of the conversation to the intelligence bureau after it's over."

Chen Tong just said simply, "Let's talk inside."

So the group went to the main house of the fortress. After all irrelevant personnel had left, Chen Tong reported on the local situation. Jiang Wenli took shorthand.

Chen Tong said that after He Rubin and Zhao Ruyi retreated to Qiongshan, about three thousand defeated government soldiers had returned from the front. It was heard that many garrison soldiers and local braves had not returned to the main camp but had gone directly back to their respective garrisons.

"They dare not go back to Guangzhou. They only stayed in the prefectural city for two or three days before taking their men to the Haikou Qianhu Suo City," Chen Tong said. "But now everyone in the prefectural city knows that the government army suffered a great defeat in Chengmai."

"Is the sea route still open?"

"No," Chen Tong said. "I don't know if they are afraid of the Viceroy knowing or for some other reason, but the ports on the Shenying side are all still sealed. Ships are not allowed in or out. Only the navy's ships are patrolling outside."

"It's just burying their heads in the sand," Tang Menglong thought, but the closure of the sea route was a troublesome problem. "Is the land route open?"

"No either. The inspection towards Chengmai is very tight. Because a few days ago, our people had already appeared at the Haikou Qianhu Suo City, killed and captured dozens of patrolling soldiers, and also killed a company commander. The government army is very nervous. This time they are mobilizing local braves in various counties again."

But the local braves were not as enthusiastic as last time—last time the local braves went on an expedition with the bait of looting with the army. But the government army had suffered a lot in Chengmai. Not only were many of the local braves killed and wounded, but many were also captured alive. These people had been released with great difficulty, so of course they were not willing to take the risk again.

"The local braves and garrison soldiers who were captured in Lin Gao have all been released. Now they don't want to fight us anymore and are not willing to send out troops again. He and Zhao are at their wits' end. The morale of the army is very shaken," Chen Tong said with a happy expression. "I heard that Adjutant Tang's days are not easy either."

"Why?"

"All of Adjutant Tang's captured men have been released. And this time his troops suffered the least damage. If you were Old He, you would also be suspicious, right?"

"That's right. Has he been dismissed?"

"Not yet. They dare not do that—it would cause a mutiny. But Zhao Ruyi has already gone to the Baisha Water Fortress to personally supervise."

Tang Menglong was very happy and nodded again and again, "But the closure of the sea and land routes is a bit troublesome."

"You rest for a while first. I'll arrange it right away. I guarantee your boat will leave tomorrow."

"Didn't you say that no ships are allowed in or out?"

Chen Tong said with a smile, "Now there are many people in Qiongshan County who are eager to get in touch with the Hai family."

The fact that the Hai family was involved with the髡贼 was no longer a secret in Qiongshan. The coal transport ships traveled back and forth between Qiongshan and Lin Gao, and everyone knew that the Hai family was doing business with the Australians in Lin Gao.

When the government army suppressed Lin Gao, this business naturally stopped. Hai Shuzu, because he was suspected of "communicating with the髡," was so scared that he hid at home and did not dare to come out. The aides of He and Zhao also extorted some money from him. Fortunately, the Hai family had a very high reputation in the local area, and ordinary officials did not dare to do anything too excessive to the Hai family. Hai Shuzu was able to get through this period peacefully until the great victory at Chengmai.

With the arrival of the defeated soldiers, the news of the髡贼's strong military power and terrifying combat effectiveness spread everywhere. Hai Shuzu suddenly became the most sought-after person in Qiongzhou Prefecture. Although the prefect and the county magistrate did not visit him in person due to their official reputation, they all sent their secretaries to talk to him in secret. As for the local gentry, they were not so reserved—since the髡贼's military power was extremely strong and they had defeated the large army gathered by the government with the strength of the entire province in one battle, at this rate, I'm afraid the Australian army will soon be at the gates of Qiongzhou Prefecture.

No one believed that He Rubin's remaining few thousand defeated soldiers could resist the Australian army. Since they could not resist, in order to avoid being destroyed together when the髡贼 arrived, the local gentry naturally had to carry out "maintaining local" activities.

This essentially surrender activity was carried out semi-publicly, and no one felt it was inappropriate. Zhao Ruyi and others were afraid of causing a "civilian rebellion" and did not dare to investigate. They only sent He Rubin's trusted generals to take over the defense of the various city gates of Qiongshan County and inspect the people entering and leaving.

"But even so, the threshold of the Hai family has recently been almost flattened by people sending gifts and visiting," Chen Tong's face wore a proud smile. "This battle has made Lin Gao famous." He continued to report that the five small merchants who had been beheaded as a sacrifice to the flag had been secretly dug up by the Qiongshan county magistrate a few days ago. Their bodies and heads were reunited, re-coffined, and buried.

"These Ming officials are probably afraid of a war crimes trial," Tang Menglong laughed.

Chen Tong did not understand what a "war crimes trial" was, but the meaning of the other party's actions was clear: "The officials are also afraid. I heard that the prefect and the county magistrate have been discussing in secret every day, but I don't know what they are discussing."

"Can you find out the content?"

"Gao Di is trying to find a way," Chen Tong said. "I think it's nothing more than talking about how to save their lives and official positions."

Chen Tong also reported that the price of rice in Qiongshan County had soared recently. Not only were the gentry and large households hoarding a large amount of grain, but the gentry, large households, and merchants in Wenchang, Ding'an, and other places were also buying rice—Qiongzhou's own grain self-sufficiency was just barely enough, and there was not much production. Qiongshan was the gateway for goods to enter and exit. It was obvious that everyone was suddenly buying rice here because they were afraid that the髡贼 would launch a large-scale siege.

"The government army and the government are also purchasing grain. They are probably also afraid of a siege."

Tang Menglong thought that the morale in Qiongshan was fluctuating and people were in a state of panic. If the field army came at this time, they could definitely occupy Qiongshan County in one fell swoop. I just don't know what the Executive Committee is thinking. Such a good opportunity should not be missed.

Tang Menglong rested at the Haijia Wharf for one night. The next day, he boarded the boat arranged for him by Chen Tong—a coal transport boat. Although large-scale transportation could not be restored, single, sporadic transportation was unimpeded. Although Tang Yunwen had no intention of defecting, his subordinates did not mind changing masters. What's more, it was just a show of goodwill now, with a foot in both camps.
[y001]: /characters/y001 "Xiao Zishan"