---
layout: post
title: Chapter 108: The Victory Parade
category: 4
path: 2011-8-21-4-10800.md
tag: [normal]
---

The "Memorial Service" held by the Religious Affairs Office at the foot of Chengmai City was a great success. The Senate believed that enough people had been killed, and there was no need to make a mystery out of the dead. So, there was no beheading for public display, no hanging of bodies on trees from Chengmai all the way to Qiongshan, and no "jingguan" in the ancient style. The prisoners and laborers set up several large cremation pyres near the sea, cremated the bodies, built several elaborate collective tombs to bury the ashes, and erected a "Monument to the Fallen." The church, the New Taoism, and the locally conscripted monks held a three-day memorial service, which left Wu Shimang and his group exhausted and crooked. The stench of burning bodies on the day of the cremation also made them lose their appetite for several days.

The ceremony for the dead was for the living to see. After this large-scale religious ceremony, not only the people of Chengmai, but also the people of Qiongshan, Ding'an, and Wenchang had a greatly changed view of the "rebels." Even on the mainland, the reputation of the rebels for benevolence and righteousness had spread.

Everyone was talking, saying that the Fubo Army not only collected and buried the bodies of the enemy but also held a memorial service to appease the souls of the dead and erected a monument in their memory. They were clearly not brutal and rude people.

The total number of fallen Fubo Army soldiers, including the missing, was one hundred and sixty-one. Originally, He Ying wanted to make coffins on the spot and then transport them back to Cuigang for burial. But Liu Muzhou believed that it would be better to cremate them on the spot and then send the urns back for burial.

"That's not good," He Ying had investigated the local customs. "The custom of burial is deeply rooted. If we suddenly change to cremation..."

"The cremation system must be promoted from now on," Liu Muzhou said. "This war is an opportunity. If we have to accommodate all the old social systems, we won't be able to do anything. Let's start with our own people!"

At the ceremony for the fallen Fubo Army soldiers, an infantry battalion stationed in Chengmai fired three volleys in formation, followed by three salutes from twelve cannons. The military flags were lowered in mourning. Everything was very solemn and respectful. Finally, the military band played "Abide with Me." Even the most arrogant veteran officers shed tears for the deaths of the native soldiers they had always regarded as cannon fodder.

The army received dignity in the ceremony for the fallen. This dignity came not only from the officers and soldiers but also from those who had taught them new weapons and tactics of killing. The army was not a simple tool; it was made up of people.

He Ming thought, *I hope all the veterans can understand this.* He watched the roaring pyre by the sea, the black smoke rising into the sky. The addition of a large amount of camphor and cypress wood to the firewood made the air smell less nauseating than in the previous days. The sea breeze also dispersed the smoke from time to time, making the air much better. He quietly asked his aide, "Is the car ready?"

"The car is already here," the aide whispered.

As soon as the ceremony was over, he had to return to Lin Gao to participate in the planning of the next phase of military operations. First was the military advance to the Qiongshan, Wenchang, and Ding'an line, and then the formation of the county garrison companies.

After the ceremony, he immediately returned to the temporary command post. Zhu Quanxing, the commander of the 6th Infantry Battalion stationed in Chengmai, was waiting for him.

"I have to rush back to Ma Niao immediately," He Ming said simply. "After I leave, the Chengmai work team will arrive in a few days. You must quickly help the work team establish our authority around Chengmai, especially in public security."

"Yes, I will do my best."

"You must do your best, but it is to 'cooperate'," He Ming emphasized. "You must distinguish between primary and secondary."

Zhu Quanxing said loudly, "Yes, I understand!"

"It's good that you understand. This time, when the troops return to their defensive positions, only your 6th Battalion will be left. You will have to engage in security operations without any rest. The soldiers may have some complaints. You should pay more attention to the morale of the troops."

"Director Wei said that the condolence group for Chengmai will be here soon. The commendation has also begun—this will attract a large part of the soldiers' attention."

The jeep bumped along the potholed post road. Shan Daoqian's prisoner construction team had not yet built the road to Chengmai. It started to rain outside. The rain poured down the windshield, and the wind swirled the rain into the car, wetting his uniform. He Ming sat alone in the back seat of the jeep. The sound of the raindrops on the canvas top was so dense that it was almost inaudible. He looked out the window. The flowing rainwater blurred the scenery outside. He said to the driver, "Slow down!"

"Yes, Comrade Commander."

He closed his eyes, seemingly resting, but his heart was in turmoil.

Bad news had been coming from Ma Niao for the past few days. It was rumored that some veterans had objections to his combat operations, believing that he had wasted resources and achieved unsatisfactory results, and that they were going to impeach him in the Senate. This rumor had caused a great deal of discussion among the veteran officers who had returned to the Ma Niao base. Many had complained.

He Ming did not care about such talk—the war had been won, after all. The only thing to argue about was the magnitude of the achievement. He personally did not care much about his own honor. After all, he was already the People's Commissar for the Army, and he could not be promoted any higher. And he believed that his qualifications, prestige, and his usual way of dealing with people were enough to thwart any ill intentions against him.

The army's primary task now was to quickly occupy the entire island. He thought that they must start acting immediately to take full advantage of the momentum of this great victory. At this thought, he put aside his earlier unhappiness. He thought about what to do after returning to Ma Niao and whom to send to organize the garrison companies.

The army base under construction was a scene of bustling activity. The troops who had returned from Chengmai had resumed their daily training after a few days of rest. The officers and soldiers had won a great victory, and their morale was high.

Today, they did not have a formal drill. Instead, an order was given: "Tidy up your appearance!"

Everyone immediately knew that a big shot was coming from Bairen to inspect the army.

So everyone got busy. Cleaning the barracks, wiping the windows, clearing the parade ground... and then endless personal chores. Cleaning guns and weapons; washing, mending, and repairing the flags—although the flags had just been made before the war, they were already tattered after a major battle; the officers and NCOs polished their sabers; and the cobblers and blacksmiths in the camp were busy as could be, repairing sabers, shoes, and all kinds of equipment.

Even the militia and laborers who had participated in the battle were ordered to tidy up their appearance. They got haircuts, shaved, bathed, and washed and mended their clothes. The militia and laborers were flattered—they had thought they were just there to work, but they hadn't expected the veteran chiefs to "inspect" them too. Everyone was saying that after the inspection, there would be generous rewards.

Yang Zeng got a haircut and shaved in his dormitory. He put on a brand new uniform. He had received this uniform this year and had never been willing to wear it. He took it out for this inspection. The clothes he had worn on the expedition were already tattered. He had already given his old uniform to the logistics department and received a new clothing coupon. Many people had received new uniforms, but he was not in a hurry—because he had overheard the battalion commander say that they would soon be changing to a new style of uniform—one that was more sophisticated than the current one.

His orderly, Wei Darong, was tidying up his belt and combat boots. Wei Darong was a young man who looked like a child. He sat on a small stool, carefully oiling the boots and using a powder made from crushed tiles to polish the metal parts of the belt to make them shine.

"Company commander! I wonder who will come to inspect us?"

"I don't know. Probably someone from the Executive Committee," Yang Zeng, as an army officer, knew a little more about the political system of the transmigrator group. "I think there will probably be Chief Wen."

"Is Chief Wen the new emperor?"

"No—" Yang Zeng smiled carelessly. "Of course not. The Australians' emperor is in Australia. Chief Wen's title is 'Chairman'."

"What kind of official is a chairman? A prefect? An adjutant-general?"

Yang Zeng couldn't think of how high an official it should be. But he was a former bandit who had fled to Hainan because he couldn't survive on the mainland. He had seen more than the average person. "I think it's probably something like a Grand Secretary."

Wei Darong was still not satisfied, because he didn't know what a Grand Secretary was.

"...Like a prime minister!" Yang Zeng finally came up with a suitable explanation.

"I see." The orderly understood a little better. "Your boots are ready."

Yang Zeng put on his boots and fastened his belt. The orderly hung his saber for him. There was a full-length mirror in the officer's dormitory. He looked at himself carefully in the mirror and felt very imposing. He thought of how he had been guarding the gate of Gou Er's manor with a matchlock gun just three years ago. Now, it felt as distant as a past life.

"Let's put on the stars," Wei Darong said, bringing a wooden box.

The box contained the newly issued medal insignia. To enhance the sense of honor of the military personnel and staff, the Senate had conducted a bidding process to establish a medal system. According to this system, a batch of medals and ribbons were made and issued retroactively.

The medals Yang Zeng received were relatively simple: the National Defense Service Medal—a flying dragon under the branch of service insignia. This was awarded to military personnel who had served on schedule, obeyed orders, followed commands, and completed their service loyally and perfectly. Almost everyone who had served for a full year could get it. Then there was the ribbon for the Promotion to Officer Commemorative Medal: a silver star on a bronze background. Then there was the Excellent Service Commendation Medal: used to commend outstanding achievements in combat and training. Those with smaller merits who could not receive a third-class military merit medal could receive a commendation medal. The ribbon was a red background with a dark pattern of the branch of service.

...

"Company commander, you have so many medals," Wei Darong said with envy, looking at the ribbons hanging on his chest. He only had a recruit training medal and was only a private second class in rank.

"They are all just ordinary commemorative medals," Yang Zeng said. "As long as you work hard, you can get them too." In his eyes, the most valuable of these medals was the Pacification of Lin Gao Commemorative Medal. Although it was just a commemorative medal, it represented seniority—only those military personnel who had served and fought for the Australians from the very beginning could get it: those who had participated in the attack on Goujia Zhuang and the Lin Gao bandit suppression campaign. Yang Zeng was a prisoner from the former battle, but he had quickly become a soldier in the latter.

But Yang Zeng knew that he would soon receive a truly extraordinary medal. The battalion commander had already spoken with him and had recommended him for a second-class military merit.

After the recommendation, if there were no objections, he would definitely get it. And this time, the significance of receiving a military merit medal was extraordinary. It was awarded after the great victory parade of the entire army, and the honor was far greater than that of an ordinary second-class military merit.

After becoming a company commander and having military merit, the next step was to climb up step by step. He thought of his battalion commander—perhaps it wouldn't be long before he also became a battalion commander.

Yang Zeng jingled the chain of his saber, his heart filled with joy. He looked at his light infantry sash and carefully straightened it. Then he drew his officer's revolver, looked at it carefully, and put it back in its holster.

"How do I look?"

"You look so imposing!" Wei Darong praised sincerely.

"Hmm." Yang Zeng looked at himself one more time. "Tell the company sergeant major that I will inspect the barracks this afternoon! Tell him to make sure it's clean."

The next day, the entire Ma Niao main camp was as shiny and spotless as a newly minted coin, waiting for the arrival of the condolence group.

The five battalions were lined up on the large parade ground of the Ma Niao base. With the sound of the bugle, company after company, with their bayonets and fluttering banners, moved and formed up at certain intervals according to the officers' orders. In front of each company was a newly sewn military flag, the banners displaying all sorts of strange patterns in the wind. The artillery carriages, even the wheels, were wiped clean and arranged neatly, with the polished cannons deployed one by one. Everyone was wearing freshly washed and mended uniforms. The soldiers' belts and leggings were tied as tightly as possible. The officers wore all their medals, new white gloves, and the brass fittings on their saber scabbards were polished to a shine.

Every officer and soldier felt their own insignificance, feeling that they were just a grain of sand in this sea of people. At the same time, they also felt their own strength, feeling that they were a member of this incredibly powerful whole.

He Ming, Dongmen Chuiyu, Wei Aiwen, Pan Da, and others looked into the distance. According to the phone notification, the condolence group would arrive at Ma Niao at 10 a.m.

"They're here, they're here," a low murmur spread as a messenger arrived.

The agricultural vehicles carrying the members of the condolence group stopped far away. The officers and soldiers on the field saw a group of people walking towards them.

He Ming knew that the visitors were the Chairman of the Executive Committee, Wen Desi, the Prime Minister of the Central Government Council, Ma Qianzhu, the Director of Manufacturing, Zhan Wuya, and a group of people's commissars and ministers. The level of the entire condolence group was very high.

He saw that Wen Desi and the others had already reached the reviewing stand, less than ten meters from the first phalanx. He immediately went up to meet them. At this time, Dongmen Chuiyu, behind him, gave the command, "Attention!"

Like raindrops falling, the phalanx made a neat sound, like a wave rolling through.

He Ming walked up to Wen Desi and saluted.

"Representative of the Senate!" He Ming shouted loudly. "Please inspect the troops! Commander of the Field Army, He Ming!"

Wen Desi returned the salute. Then, accompanied by him, he walked to the flank of the first battalion. The buglers of the first battalion began to play a march. Wen Desi raised his hand slightly in a gesture, and then said a few words of encouragement and condolence to the battalion commander and the soldiers. The 1st Infantry Battalion shouted loudly, "Serve the people of the Senate!" This was followed by a rhythmic shout, continuous, like a huge wave, passing from one end of the parade ground to the other.

Yang Zeng stood in front of his company. He had never been so proud. He could feel the same emotion in everyone in this unit—selflessness, pride in the strength of their collective, and fervent admiration for the people who had created this army.

The veterans walked up to Yang Zeng's company. Wang Luobin seemed to remember this officer—he had been the best Minié rifle shooter back then.

"This is—"

"Yang Zeng," He Ming introduced. "Company commander of the light infantry company of the 1st Infantry Battalion."

"You're a good shot!"

"Yes, sir!" he was so nervous he could barely speak.

Wen Desi asked, "Has he been decorated?"

"He was awarded a second-class merit."

"A true hero," Wen Desi said, and then slowly walked on.

Yang Zeng felt a huge sense of happiness wash over him, making him dizzy. At this moment, even if he were asked to charge a thousand enemies with his rifle alone, he would do it without hesitation.

As Wen Desi and the others walked on, the cheers went from one company to another. The bugles played, and the drums beat. The sound grew louder and louder, merging into a deafening roar.

The soldiers looked at the chiefs. Many were seeing the semi-divine chiefs up close for the first time. They were all tall, wearing the most common uniforms, without belts, boots, medals, or any insignia of honor. They were so simple, with serious or tolerant expressions on their faces, waving and nodding to the officers and soldiers. The soldiers were filled with a heartfelt love: the chiefs controlled endless wealth and had the power of gods, but their appearance and dress were not like those of an official or even a rich man. This simplicity and approachability filled the soldiers with ecstasy and a sense of closeness, and they couldn't help but let out louder and louder cheers.

Then the veterans came to the ranks of the militia and laborers. Although the ranks here were not as neat as those of the army, their affection still made them let out a huge cheer that was no less impressive.

Wen Desi stopped and raised his hand to salute the countless dark, peasant faces that looked almost identical to him.

"Comrades, you have worked hard!"

A deafening cheer erupted from the parade ground. This cheer was not as neat as that of the army, but it contained an unparalleled enthusiasm. Many in the ranks burst into tears—this was a respect they had never received in their decades of life, and not just as a common person forced to do hard labor.

Wen Desi finally said, "To all of you, every comrade, on behalf of the Senate, on behalf of all the people, I sincerely thank you for all that you have done."

He looked at the people on the parade ground.

"You have received the military flag bestowed upon you by the Senate and the people. You are worthy of the honor and mission of the military flag."