---
layout: post
title: "Section 110: The Weapon of Art and Literature"
category: 4
path: 2011-8-23-4-11000.md
tag: [normal]
---

The victory of the first anti-encirclement campaign has ended. While a victory parade and reward were held in Ma Niao, a commendation ceremony was held in Bairen City to award commemorative medals, bonuses, and prizes to the labor activists among the native laborers who had surrendered since D-Day, those who had made outstanding contributions, and those who had performed excellently in the wartime support work.

Many labor activists and volunteer overtime workers in the factories received labor service medals of different levels. Some production teams received honorary titles and collective honor banners.

The villages and factories that provided more militia as a collective received the First Anti-Encirclement Victory Commemorative Medal.

The "Lin Gao Times" published an article with a large headline, "Without Production, There Is No Victory!", which clearly declared this point. This article listed the industrial and agricultural collectives and individuals who had contributed to this victory and received awards.

The veterans' praise for the factories and rural areas, and their rewards for the production activists. The newspaper's lengthy descriptions of the Fubo Army's extremely fierce firepower and great advantages in logistical supply made many people realize that the Australians' strength was built on their rich material power.

Before the Australian army engaged the enemy, the fertile fields of Lin Gao and the busy production lines in the factories had already destined their victory. This new regime's emphasis on laborers and production was above military achievements and victory.

The people under the rule of the transmigrator group, although they might not have much awareness of this painstaking effort, still had the concept that they were under the rule of a powerful group.

The strength of the ruler meant peace, meaning that they could get up safely every day to work, and go home at night to sleep peacefully. Although they ate coarse grains and miscellaneous food, wore ragged clothes, and could not afford a little meat for years, at least they knew that such a peaceful life could continue tomorrow. Although the peasants still feared natural disasters, at least they knew that they would not be suddenly arrested while working, their wives and daughters would not be raped by bandits and rogue soldiers, and their houses and villages would not be burned down at will.

However, the rule of a powerful regime often brings unbridled oppression. Fortunately, this powerful regime was relatively rational and knew the long-term benefits of properly taking care of the people's interests. Compared with the original government, the rulers from Australia were much better to the people. The exploitation was not so harsh, and there were not many monsters and demons who relied on the power of the government to exploit the people. People without a livelihood could still work to get a mouthful of food.

Even the gentry and large households felt that life was more stable now than in the past. They had lost the power to do whatever they wanted to the people, but they also did not have to pay large sums of money and grain to various corrupt officials and deal with bandits; they did not need to raise many family retainers and local braves to protect their homes and fields, nor did they have to bargain with ruthless bandits with fear and trepidation, and always be vigilant when they went out for fear of being kidnapped. In the middle of the night, when they heard the alarm gong, they would rush to the village wall with their swords to defend.

The government army's suppression once made the atmosphere here tense. Many people were afraid that with the arrival of the government army, Lin Gao would fall back into the chaotic social situation of three years ago. After the news of the government army's defeat came, everyone from top to bottom seemed to breathe a sigh of relief.

A peaceful life had faintly descended on Lin Gao. Everyone felt this way.

Soon, a familiar melody sounded in many people's ears again.

"The Sky in the Liberated Area is a Clear Sky."

Of course, the lyrics were slightly altered. The three words "liberated area" were originally to be changed to "Lin Gao," but some veterans raised objections, believing that the ruling area would gradually expand, and it was inappropriate to limit it to Lin Gao. In the end, the term "liberated area" was retained, but the others were replaced with "veterans."

"We have already rushed to adapt and use a large number of songs, but many of the singing versions used so far are still based on the old versions," Fang Fei said at a joint meeting of the Grand Library and the Propaganda Department.

Dingding said, "It's okay to fool them with the old singing versions for a while, but in the long run, I'm afraid it will make the natives feel strange, right?"

"Hmph, I'm afraid that in the future, if some people want to explore the black history, the memory of these songs will become a beginning," Yu E'shui expressed his agreement.

"So I suggest establishing a literary and art troupe," Fang Fei said. "Set up a professional group like a song and dance troupe to be responsible for literary and artistic performances. Then record their singing songs as standard singing versions."

"Oh, this is an expected topic," Yu E'shui nodded. "However, this kind of thing, a literary and art troupe, it's fine to establish a few for contingency when you have money and leisure. To establish it in a hurry now, I'm afraid the frugal faction, such as Ma Gong, will not agree..."

"We already have a puppet troupe, so it's no problem to have a song and dance troupe," Dingding had long had this idea. "Art and literature are the weapons of propaganda—the achievements of the puppet troupe are right in front of us! Besides, if Ma Gong also opposes such a thing, he will be in a precarious position in the next election."

"Not necessarily, comrades," Yu E'shui coughed. "Stance is very important. People who change their stance at will cannot be politicians."

"Hmph, I know what you're thinking," Dingding said with a smile to Fang Fei. "Propaganda weapons are only one use, right?"

Fang Fei nodded and replied with an ambiguous smile, "Our veterans' entertainment activities can't always be interacting with computers. We should also have a few dances and hold a few performances."

"Alright, I don't object. Art and literature are also the needs of the public's life," Yu E'shui did not take his bait. "But at this stage, it is a period of initial creation, and everything should be kept simple. Besides, the life secretaries have just been distributed. Don't set up professional groups. It's better to start with mass amateur literary and art groups, such as student choirs, worker choirs, etc. First, the threshold is low enough, and the participation is strong. In addition, it will avoid being caught by the pigtails one day."

"By whom?"

"By history," Yu E'shui said.

Under Dingding's personal care, Hu Qingbai readily agreed to form the first choir with students from the national school. At that time, male and female students with good singing conditions were selected from the school's students to form a choir for amateur training.

Among the five hundred people, there were a few who liked to sing and dance, but none of them knew how to sing in a choir. As for professional personnel who could read sheet music and knew vocal music and voice parts, there were even fewer.

"Modern chorus basically originated from church choirs. So let's ask Lu Ruohua to teach singing," Fang Fei said to Dingding, who was troubled by the lack of professional teachers. "I heard the unaccompanied chorus of the boys' choir in the Lin Gao church last time. It was very beautiful—it really had the feeling of heavenly sound."

Lu Ruohua was full of enthusiasm for helping to set up a choir—now he would do anything to please the Australians without hesitation. Although two missionaries had died of epidemic diseases in the Li area during their missionary work, their missionary achievements in the past two years had surpassed the efforts of the missionaries on the mainland for twenty years.

The missionary cause in Lin Gao was flourishing. And when he heard that they had defeated the Ming court on the mainland and were about to occupy the entire island of Qiongzhou, and the missionary area would be further expanded, Lu Ruohua held a grand victory thanksgiving mass in the Bairen church.

When it was rumored that the Ming army was coming to attack, the Lin Gao church had held several grand masses. They also held large-scale icon processions to pray for victory. The main role in this was played by the Jesuit missionaries.

The missionaries' expectation of the transmigrator group's victory was sincere—only if these "Australians" continued to be in power in Lin Gao could the missionary cause flourish day by day.

The only thing he regretted was that the power of this emerging diocese was in the hands of the Australian church, and for some reason, the Australian church had never sent a bishop to Lin Gao. A diocese without a bishop was too improper.

When Lu Ruohua heard that the Australians wanted to set up a choir, he immediately agreed to help with all his strength.

"Unfortunately, Brother Michael is not in Macau," he said with some regret.

"Who is he?"

"He is one of our brothers, with a beautiful voice," Lu Ruohua said with infinite yearning. "When I hear him lead the singing of hymns, my soul seems to soar to the side of God, bathed in the holy light..."

Fang Fei heard that there was such a talent and could not miss it. He quickly asked, "Where is he?"

"In Goa," Lu Ruohua said with some regret. "But that was five years ago, if he has not been summoned by the Lord."

The environment in Goa was not suitable for Europeans, and many Europeans died of illness there.

Fang Fei noted this person in his notebook, reminding himself to ask He Ying to negotiate with the Jesuit mission next time he met him and have this person transferred by name.

"These mystical guys are still very useful."

But when Lu Ruohua found out that there were also girls in the choir, he expressed his opposition—although the convent also had its own choir, the pure male voice choir of the church was the mainstream of hymn singing at that time. Besides, he thought that it was not in accordance with the rules for men and women to sing together.

"It's okay, you can just teach them separately. A mixed choir is not without precedent. you have to find a way to achieve this effect." He Ying showed him some video materials of a large chorus in a performance.

Lu Ruohua had seen the mysterious shadow play of the Australians many times. He knew that these real-life moving images, as if they were right in front of him, copied the living conditions of the Australians.

"Can you do it?"

"Yes," Lu Ruohua nodded. "But... if you are not performing an opera, why do you need a chorus..." Lu Ruohua did not know what significance this roaring chorus had for the Australians.

He Ying said, "Because we need it."

Lu Ruohua silently made the sign of the cross.

The professional level of the 17th century was also quite powerful. A few days later, the choir of the national school held a special performance for the veterans of the Propaganda Department and the Grand Library in the small theater of the Lin Gao Puppet Troupe. Wen Desi was also invited to attend.

The repertoire of the performance was: "The Sky in the Liberated Area is a Clear Sky," "We Workers Have Strength," "Without the Veterans, There is No New Life," "Singing for the Motherland," "Bopu Tune," "On the Fields," "Fubo Army March," "Warship March," "Facing the Flag," and "Brave Boys, Go Create a Miracle."

Although the chorus rehearsed and directed by Lu Ruohua was not majestic enough for the veterans, it was a bit too melodious and had the flavor of a choir.

"It's good to listen to, but it's not majestic enough!" Wen Desi instructed at the end. "The momentum is not highlighted!" He continued, "It's too polished! A large chorus is a mass performance. We must highlight the characteristics of the masses. Don't be afraid of being rough. The key is momentum!"

He then instructed Dingding to grasp this form of art, the large chorus. All groups should have a large chorus, not only internally, but also in regional and industrial performances, to build up the momentum.

"Cooperate with our recent good situation and inspire people. Vigorously promote the activity of singing Ao songs."

"I think it can be called 'holy songs.' 'Ao songs' is not a proper name," Fang Fei suggested.

"Is it appropriate to canonize ourselves..." someone raised an objection.

"I think it's very appropriate. Comrade Fang Fei's suggestion is very good! He has keen insight!" Wen Desi made the final decision. "If we, a group and individuals who will fundamentally change the world, cannot be called 'holy,' what else can be called holy!"

According to his instructions, Fang Fei subsequently set up two more choirs in the mechanical department and the "Tiandihui" system. With these three choirs as the basic team, after simple training, they went down to the grassroots to mobilize the masses. Thus, the large chorus resounded throughout Lin Gao, setting off a craze for large choruses.

The air was filled with the sound of spirited singing—this was the Lin Gao wired broadcasting station rebroadcasting the "Industrial System Large Chorus Performance" being held at the Bairen Theater. Fourteen amateur choirs from the Manufacturing General Supervision Department were competing at this time. The singing that had been heard countless times resounded through the clouds. Fang Fei shivered and returned to his desk.

The desk was piled with documents. Fang Fei was so tired that he didn't even want to look at them. Since Wen Desi's instruction to carry out a nationwide large chorus, he, the director of the mass activities department, had been extremely busy. Every day he was engaged in "mass art and literature," practicing songs, inspecting work, and organizing performances. He was so busy that he couldn't even catch his breath. Dingding also gave him the Lin Gao Puppet Troupe to make full use of. In terms of the veterans' stinginess, professional art and literature groups were not a place to raise people. They were basically performing and rehearsing non-stop to extract the greatest use value.

He had just arranged a tour of condolence performances for the Lin Gao Puppet Troupe in Bopu, Ma Niao, and Chengmai. The troupe, which had expanded to more than fifty people, loaded more than a dozen carts of props. Under his coordination and arrangement, they finally set off on a one-month tour.

For these things, he had not returned to his dormitory for a week. When he was tired, he would sleep for a while in the office.

The office door was suddenly opened—this sudden and rude opening was undoubtedly Zhen Qian—others would at least knock. In the past few days, his wife had conducted several surprise inspections on him—for a person whose daily work often involved contact with women and often had to "train women," it was normal for his wife to have such suspicions.

"You're really working hard." Seeing her husband's tired expression, Zhen Qian felt a little sorry for him.

"It's okay, it's okay," Fang Fei said with a bitter smile. "I wasn't willing to be a basic laborer in the past. Now that I'm being heavily used, the taste is not good either."

"It's okay, I think that little secretary outside is just a little dark. She's still quite pretty."

"I don't have the energy to care whether she's pretty or ugly," Fang Fei carefully avoided this topic. "Are you off work?"

"No, I'm waiting for a car. I'm going to Nanbao to see the environment later—they're going to build fifty standard houses there, and also collective dormitories. General Manager Mei said he wants me to design them."

"Is that so? That's not bad," Fang Fei said perfunctorily.

"Are you coming back tonight?"

"Probably not. I'm very busy. Tomorrow is the agricultural system's large chorus performance, and then the winners will have a county-wide performance..."

"I'm so bored," Zhen Qian complained when she heard that he was not coming home. "Life here is too empty. There's almost nothing to do besides work."

The veterans' amateur life was mainly watching various video clips. In order to make full use of the materials, a veteran video source exchange system was set up on the BBS. In addition, they would go to the internal BBS to chat or go to the entertainment room to play games and read magazines and books. Otherwise, it was sports activities like playing ball. In general, most of them were very "otaku" amateur activities, which was very boring and obviously male-oriented. For women who liked to go shopping, the amateur life in Lin Gao was extremely boring—the so-called "prosperity" of Dongmen Market was not even comparable to a small town for them. Besides, there was nothing to buy. They had money but nowhere to spend it.

"You're in charge of propaganda. Why don't you think of something?"

"I don't have any ideas right now. How about a dance party?"

"We have more men than women. How can we dance?" Zhen Qian said. "Even if it's a disco dance party, it's not interesting when the weather is too hot."

"Let me think about it again." After finally coaxing his wife away, Fang Fei received a call from Xiao Zishan.

"Are you free later? I'll come over."

"No, no, I'll come over," Fang Fei said quickly.

Xiao Zishan talked about the current situation—the veterans had made further demands on their recent leisure life. With the life secretaries, the veterans' physiological needs were fully met, and the spiritual needs became prominent. After the victory of the anti-encirclement campaign, the pressure was lifted, and the veterans were immersed in an atmosphere of joy and carnival. They all hoped to have some entertainment projects to pass the time.

For this reason, he asked Fang Fei if he had any suitable solutions.

Fang Fei considered it: the proposal to establish a veterans' club had been submitted to the Senate, and it would probably be passed soon if there were no accidents. But distant water could not quench a nearby thirst.

"I think, can we have an annual meeting?"

Holding an annual meeting was Fang Fei's specialty. The so-called annual meeting was nothing more than gathering together to eat, drink, and have fun, and to connect with colleagues and business partners. The transmigrator group could also follow suit.

[y001]: /characters/y001 "Xiao Zishan"
[y002]: /characters/y002 "Wen Desi"
[y005]: /characters/y005 "Ma Qianzhu"
