---
layout: post
title: "Section 86: A Different Path"
category: 5
path: 2012-3-23-5-08600.md
tag: [normal]
---

The second technical support team for Jiangnan was formally established. The machinery factory began to manufacture 4 Albion printing presses and 2 lithographic presses. At the same time, a small water turbine was also manufactured. Although a water turbine could be made with the craftsmanship of that time, its efficiency would be much lower than one made by the machinery factory. The water turbines made in Lingao had better variable speed and transmission systems, which were incomparable to handmade ones.

All the equipment was dismantled and packed into boxes. Also shipped were the assembly tools needed for the equipment, some easily damaged spare parts, the stone plates, styluses, etchants, and protective agents needed for lithographic printing. Originally, Mo Xiao'an had proposed setting up a paper mill in Hangzhou. The equipment needed for a paper mill was simple, and the process was not complicated. The abundant rice straw in the Hang-Jia-Hu Plain and the bamboo and wood resources in the mountainous counties could provide sufficient raw materials for papermaking.

Papermaking could not only supply the printing house but also be sold locally. Hangzhou was an important paper distribution center at that time, and there was no shortage of market for high-quality paper. Papermaking was not a highly profitable industry, and few wealthy gentry were involved. According to Zhao Yigong's observation, most paper workshops were small family handicraft businesses, mostly distributed in the mountainous counties near Hangzhou, such as Yuhang, Lin'an, and Liuxia. The paper produced was then transported to Hangzhou for sale by merchants. This force posed no threat to Zhao Yigong's industry.

However, modern papermaking required large quantities of acids and alkalis, and Lingao could not supply chemicals remotely, so Mo Xiao'an's proposal was temporarily shelved.

The Jiangnan inspection team consisted of four transmigrators, including Zhou Dongtian. Hearing that there was an opportunity to go to Jiangnan, many people were eager to try. Wasn't such a low-risk business trip and inspection a great opportunity to enjoy the pleasures of Jiangnan? The Jiangnan of the Ming Dynasty was said to be a "dreamland." Many had heard of the "Eight Beauties of Qinhuai," and those who had read a little of the classics also knew about the "slender horses of Yangzhou." They were all eager to try. When Mei Lin heard about the Jiangnan inspection team, he immediately found Mei Wan and tearfully requested to go along. His reason was also quite sufficient—since Zhao Yigong was going to build a manor, how could the construction company not be involved? If the houses were built according to the methods of local craftsmen, it would definitely be a waste of land area, house space, and building materials.

"My back is good, my back is good," Mei Lin said. "When I go, I'll definitely turn the Phoenix Manor into an impregnable fortress..."

Mei Wan was so pestered by him that he had no choice but to say, "I have to remind you, we're definitely going to Hangzhou this time. It's not certain if we'll go to Nanjing."

It was well known in the Senate that Mei Lin coveted the Eight Beauties of Qinhuai. For these eight beauties, he hadn't even bought a life secretary and was considered a freak. Now that he was so eager to go to Jiangnan, everyone knew his ulterior motives.

"It's fine, it's fine. Going to Hangzhou is also good. Suzhou and Hangzhou produce... um, good craftsmen... Xiangshan craftsmen..."

"Since you're so eager, you can go." Mei Lin was one of his "great generals," and his work performance was usually very positive. He couldn't not show some appreciation. Besides, getting in the way of someone's pursuit of women was the most hated thing. Mei Wan felt that the reason of helping to build a house was also reasonable, so he immediately agreed to try to recommend him to the inspection team.

"There's one more thing. Do you know how I can exchange my circulation coupons for silver?" Mei Lin asked seriously. "Or gold is also fine."

"What do you want to do?" Mei Wan was surprised. In theory, transmigrators were not allowed to hold precious metals. To use silver or gold, they had to apply for approval. "The travel expenses will be allocated. You don't have to worry."

Mei Lin said timidly, "No, I was just thinking, in case I need ransom money... I don't know how much silver will be enough..."

Mei Wan was stunned for a moment. "No way, you really have this idea?!"

The last person to go to Hangzhou was a missionary who was currently preaching in Lingao—Jin Lige, or Father Trigault. This time, he was going to Hangzhou to contact the local church. Jin Lige was very excited about this. In Europe, he had been very interested in this "city in the sky," as Marco Polo called it. Now, he actually had the opportunity to go to Hangzhou in person and meet the lambs of the Holy Church founded by Father Nicolas Trigault.

The Foreign Intelligence Bureau was not afraid of trouble and took him along to make use of the influence of the Jesuit Order. The Catholic Church in Hangzhou had a group of gentry who were quite influential locally. Although Yang Tingyun and Li Zhizao, two of the "Three Pillars," had passed away in 1627 and 1630 respectively, they were both natives of Hangzhou: Yang Tingyun was from Qiantang County, and Li Zhizao was from Renhe County. Many of their relatives and friends were Catholics, and the Jesuit Order had considerable influence in Hangzhou. So much so that during the Nanjing religious persecution, the two missions in Shanghai and Hangzhou were the safest places for foreign missionaries at that time.

Zhao Yigong was currently an outsider in Hangzhou, lacking sufficient influence and protection. The power that the Jesuit Order had built up locally could be of great use. Moreover, he could use this connection to get in touch with Xu Guangqi.

Xu Guangqi had a close relationship with Sun Yuanhua, a key figure in the upcoming Dengzhou rebellion, and both were Catholics. Establishing this connection would be of great benefit to future activities.

"Doesn't this mean Zhao Yigong has to become a Catholic? That's not very appropriate. And getting too involved with the Catholic Church will have a bad influence locally," He Ying said when approving the Foreign Intelligence Bureau's application.

"Zhao Yigong doesn't have to become a Catholic, nor does he need to get too involved. He just needs to show friendliness and a certain 'interest' in the church. The Jesuit Order is very pragmatic. They will urge the Catholic gentry in Hangzhou to act as his protectors. They know very well that to open up a situation in China now, they mainly have to rely on our military force," Li Yan explained. "According to the *Compilation of Intercepted Correspondence between Jesuit Missionaries and Macau* from the General Political Security Bureau, they now place their greatest hope for spreading Catholicism in China on us. They will do their best to satisfy any of our requests. As long as Zhao Yigong is introduced by someone from the Jesuit Order, he can get the protection of these Catholic gentry in Hangzhou, which will be beneficial to his activities there."

"But Zhao Yigong plans to claim to be a descendant of the Song imperial family..." He Ying's implication was that it was inappropriate for a descendant of the great Song imperial family to get involved with a foreign religion, and it would be a flaw in terms of "political correctness."

"Regarding the identity of a Song imperial descendant that he has created for himself, I think a little flaw is good for everyone," Li Yan said. "Besides, I've already said that he doesn't need to be baptized. He just needs to let the Jesuit Order introduce him and establish a friendly relationship. In the long run, it's not advisable to let Zhao Yigong get too entangled with the church in Hangzhou. My opinion is to arrange for a naturalized Catholic in his retinue to serve as a channel to establish a relationship with the church in Hangzhou."

"Is this person reliable?"

"Of course, he's reliable. He's someone trained by our intelligence bureau."

Father Trigault, unaware of the transmigrators' plans, excitedly went to prepare his luggage. Of course, he was also warned by He Ying beforehand not to reveal that Zhao Yigong was from Lingao and to stick to the unified story of the Foreign Intelligence Bureau.

"You know, our situation on the mainland is very delicate right now. If the identity of a transmigrator is revealed, it will not only have an adverse effect on our cause but also have unpredictable serious consequences for the missionary cause," He Ying said. "I hope you can understand what I mean."

Father Trigault could fully understand this diplomatic language. The Jesuit Order had never deluded itself into thinking that the Australians were devout believers with the intention of becoming a "Catholic Senate." Their cooperation was, in the end, a mutually beneficial relationship. So he very clearly stated that all his words and actions would be in accordance with the intentions of the "leader" of the inspection team.

Besides the channel of the Jesuit Order, he also had to quickly establish a reputation through the bookstore. Therefore, Zhao Yigong's library-cum-bookstore had to be sufficiently different from the ordinary. Just like the rapid rise of the Zi-brand in Guangzhou back then. So this time, they also prepared to transport some "Australian building materials" and luxury goods, including cement, tiles, plumbing fixtures, glass, and so on. Of course, some of these were also for the Hangzhou Station's own use.

Although some transmigrators raised the question of whether the heavy use of Australian goods, creating a strong "Australian" color, would attract unwanted attention, Li Yan believed it was not a big problem. The reputation of "Australian goods" was not only famous in Guangdong but had also become well-known in Jiangnan and the capital. Zhao Yigong's identity was that of a wealthy young master from Sanshui County, Guangdong. It was not surprising for him to have many "Australian luxuries," and it was perfectly reasonable.

Because of the large number of goods and personnel being transported this time, especially a lot of heavy cargo, taking the land route would be too slow. The Jiangnan inspection team decided to take a sea vessel from Da Bo Shipping.

"What if we run into Zheng Zhilong?" This was a question that concerned everyone. Zheng Zhilong now completely controlled the seas off Fujian, which was a vital northbound sea route.

How to deal with Zheng Zhilong had always been a hot topic of debate in the Senate and the navy. Not only was there a need to transport goods to Jiangnan this time, but future involvement in the Dengzhou rebellion and the population trade with the Manchu Qing could also be affected by Zheng Zhilong's specific attitude. Some believed they could temporarily pay a toll for peaceful passage, while others thought they could start attacking Zheng Zhilong now to completely eliminate this obstacle.

"Zheng Zhilong is mainly concerned with monopolizing the ships in foreign trade, especially the trade routes to Japan and the Philippines. There is no historical record of him monopolizing coastal shipping routes. Besides, with Zheng Zhilong's strength, he may not be able to effectively blockade the sea routes. According to the information we have gathered from merchants in Guangdong and other places, there is no evidence that Zheng Zhilong is collecting tolls on coastal shipping routes. What we should be worried about are the sporadic pirate robberies along the coast."