---
layout: post
title: "Section 36: The People of Leizhou Station"
category: 5
path: 2012-2-2-5-03600.md
tag: [normal]
---

After the paperwork was completed, the members of the old and new leadership teams held a welcome and farewell banquet at the Leizhou Station headquarters—the former residence of Zhu An. The attendees, of course, were all Senators. To avoid provoking the "comrade from the central government"—especially since she was a woman, and women were always more perceptive, and on top of that, a married woman—the banquet was very conventional. There were no "entertaining side shows" that the masses would enjoy, and the dishes were of the delicious and substantial variety.

During the banquet, everyone happily exchanged views. Yan Maoda was originally a member of the Guang-Lei faction and often came to Leizhou to handle trade business, so he was very familiar with the people at the Leizhou Station. As for Bei Kai, he had the experience of going to Vietnam with Chang Shide to search for the Hon Gai coal mine, so he wasn't considered an outsider either. In comparison, Jin Zhijiao was a complete "outsider." Perhaps feeling that her presence made everyone a bit reserved, Jin Zhijiao quickly excused herself to her room after she had eaten her fill—she still had to continue auditing Leizhou's accounts and write an audit report for the CHEKA. Leizhou Station was different from Guangzhou Station; it had fewer economic entities, and the types of transactions were simpler. Jin Zhijiao and her female apprentices had been stationed in Leizhou to conduct the audit since the end of the annual meeting, and now they had roughly sorted things out.

After Jin Zhijiao left, Wen Tong had someone clear the table and ordered Ah Zhu to set up tea, snacks, melon seeds, and cigarettes in the main room of his small courtyard. The group then sat down to drink tea and chat.

After some small talk, the conversation turned to the future operations of the Leizhou Station. The Vietnam Trading Company had been separated from the Leizhou Station system and was now a state-owned, directly-managed company. Although its "status" had been elevated, since the headquarters of the Vietnam Trading Company was located in Leizhou and a large part of its trade goods was Leizhou sugar, its cooperation with the Leizhou Station was indispensable.

"I'm really reluctant to see you go. Leizhou Sugar can't do without you," Wen Tong said to Chang Shide with great emotion.

"Anyway, it's pretty much all set up. In the future, let the people from the Tiandihui and Delong Bank take over. They are more professional than me." Chang Shide was actually not satisfied with this transfer, but he didn't show it on his face. He said with a feigned indifference, "With the two of us being so close here, won't the people in the Senate get jealous? Don't worry, even though I, Chang Shide, am no longer in Leizhou, I was born a man of Leizhou Station, and I will die a ghost of Leizhou Station."

Wen Tong sighed, "Alas, take care of yourself—without you, I feel there's no point in staying in Leizhou."

"Don't say that. Leizhou is a vital piece for the Senate, and right now it's the main source of real gold and silver. Just the net income of over a hundred thousand taels of silver each year, plus the rice and coal exchanged from Vietnam, it's no exaggeration to say that our Leizhou Station is Lingao's blood bank. Leizhou is a vast world with great potential!"

When the Guangzhou Station was forced to retreat, the Leizhou Station continued to operate, serving as Lingao's only external channel at the time. In a situation where all trade was successively cut off and exports and imports were nearly paralyzed, Leizhou fully utilized its geographical advantage of being across the sea from Lingao to continue undertaking the tasks of exporting bulk commodities and importing coal and rice.

From this point of view, the merits of the Leizhou Station even surpassed those of the Guangzhou Station. After the end of the Battle of Chengmai, the Senators of the Leizhou Station received a collective Second-Class Medal of Merit in addition to the Second Anti-Encirclement Campaign Commemorative Medal and the Chengmai Victory Commemorative Medal. The level of their medals was higher than that of the personnel at the Guangzhou Station.

News from Lingao also indicated that the Executive Committee intended to make Leizhou the first "Lingao-ized" prefecture on the mainland. The importance attached to Leizhou was evident.

For the past two years in Leizhou, Wen Tong had been in charge of internal affairs and technical work, with his energy focused on the South China Sugar Factory. The Leizhou Sugar Guild and the Leizhou Sugar Production Cooperative were basically managed by Chang Shide.

After the sugar war, the Leizhou Station successfully integrated the sugar trade in Leizhou. Subsequently, Chang Shide's main focus was on the field of sugarcane production, organizing the Leizhou Sugar Production Association. This sugarcane cultivation organization, modeled after the Japanese agricultural cooperative system, supported cane farmers in their production by providing loans. This not only dealt a heavy blow to the local rural small-scale usury but also distributed Lingao's grain coupons. This small-scale reform not only increased the production enthusiasm of the cane farmers but also indirectly controlled the local source of sugarcane. In the 1630 pressing season, the South China Sugar Factory actually controlled more than 90% of the sugarcane output in Xuwen and Haikang counties. The local traditional sugar mills, except for a few in areas with inconvenient transportation, suffered a devastating blow. The small loans also allowed Lingao's grain coupons to begin to penetrate the local circulation.

For the next step, he had already discussed with the Tiandihui: the Tiandihui would send specialists to Leizhou to carry out sugarcane variety improvement and promote new fertilizers and pesticides. But the sudden transfer from the Organization Department made Chang Shide a little resentful. It wasn't that he was clinging to his position—being transferred back to Lingao now meant that a bigger new position would be assigned to him, but leaving the situation in Leizhou half-done gave him a sense of leaving things unfinished.

Wen Tong asked, "The positions of Secretary-General of the Leizhou Sugar Guild and Chairman of the Sugar Production Cooperative are both held by you now. Who will take over when you leave? The naturalized citizens can't handle this yet." Because he was in charge of technical work, he didn't have much interaction with the locals. It was all Chang Shide who was holding the fort, and he was afraid that he wouldn't be able to manage once Chang Shide was gone.

"Let Chen Tianxiong take over, or let Lingao send another person over. I think it would be good to send someone from the Tiandihui system; it would be more convenient for a professional. In the future, we can train up the Wen brothers, and Ah Zhu and Qiu Han can also be trained more."

"Alright. I'm just afraid he won't be willing," Wen Tong nodded. "Old Chen is very busy himself."

As the full-time intelligence officer of the Foreign Intelligence Bureau stationed in Leizhou, Chen Tianxiong had been focusing on collecting intelligence on the local customs, people, and geography of Leizhou and the surrounding prefectures. He had recently gone to Gaozhou. Using his status as a Taoist priest from the Zou Heshan Temple, an outsider, as a cover, it was safer and more convenient for him to travel around. Zhang Yingchen had taken a liking to Chen Tianxiong's activities and had a special business meeting with him during the annual meeting. Thus, the Zou Heshan Temple became the first stronghold of the New Taoism on the mainland.

Wen Tong felt that Chen Tianxiong might not be willing to take on such a position, and this matter would also have to be approved by the Foreign Intelligence Bureau.

"Who came up with this crazy idea, making such random transfers? Is there any continuity in planning when doing things?!" Wen Tong was angry. He was a person who was used to working step-by-step and hated it when leaders gave chaotic commands and messed around. In his view, transferring Chang Shide now was a major blow to the sugar industry reform led by the Leizhou Station.

"Don't complain for now," Yan Maoda, true to his business background, was very calm. "A transfer is a transfer. It's not good to stay in one place for too long. Moving around is for the sake of bigger endeavors in the future." He was actually very happy with this transfer—his development prospects were limited if he stayed at the Guangzhou Station. Coming to Leizhou to take charge of the Vietnam trade offered great potential. "This time, maybe they'll send Old Chang to an even better place."

When Wen Tong returned to his own courtyard, he was still holding in his anger. His women—now officially called female servants—were talking and chatting in the main room. He originally only had Ah Zhu, whom Chang Shide had bought for him. Later, Ah Zhu introduced him to another woman named Qiu Han. Qiu Han was originally Third Master Zhu's concubine. She didn't hide this fact, only saying that after Third Master Zhu died, she had nowhere to go and had to beg the master to take her in.

On the one hand, Wen Tong was moved by Ah Zhu's request, and on the other, he saw that Qiu Han was quite beautiful and had a voluptuous figure—much better looking than Ah Zhu. The sight of Qiu Han kneeling on the ground, humbly begging, made his chauvinism and compassion erupt at the same time. He immediately took her in despite Chen Tianxiong's fierce opposition. Chang Shide, on the other hand, was very supportive of this—the so-called pleasure of possessing the enemy's woman.

"If she dares to speak or act out of line, just hang her up and whip her with a whip dipped in cold water. See if that doesn't make her obedient!" Chang Shide taught Wen Tong from his experience. "The more you beat her, the more obedient she becomes. The more she won't dare to have any ulterior motives."

Wen Tong disagreed in his heart—he felt that Old Chang's methods of managing women were simply fascist dictatorship, not the "militarized management of female servants" that he advocated. He had long had some suspicions about Old Chang's sexual preferences.

The lights in the courtyard were already on—there was no electricity here, so they used gas lamps. Qiu Han was waiting for him at the door. In accordance with the Senators' tastes, her hair was loosely tied, without a bun. She wore a waist-cinching so-called "new Hanfu." Chang Shide had gotten this from Zheng Shangjie when he went back for the annual meeting.

"Master." Seeing Wen Tong walk in, Qiu Han quickly came forward to greet him.

Qiu Han had been a housemaid in a wealthy family and then a concubine to Third Master Zhu. She had learned the full set of skills for serving people, excelling in everything from cooking to needlework. She was also good at showing tender affection, making her much more endearing than Ah Zhu, who came from a poor fishing family and could only serve her master with her body. Originally, Wen Tong and Chang Shide were a little wary of her, but as time went on, they gradually let their guard down. Slowly, Qiu Han became much more favored, suppressing her former good sister Ah Zhu. She had become Wen Tong's de facto first female servant. The nights she spent serving him alone became more and more frequent—Wen Tong was not used to Chang Shide's豪邁 (heroic/bold) style of having several women serve him at the same time.

The room had been renovated according to modern standards. The insulation and privacy of the room had been greatly improved. The room was lit with a gas lamp, bright and dazzling. A bathroom had also been installed, with a special double bathtub from Lingao. It was filled with a pool of hot water, steaming.

A floral bath lotion produced by the Ministry of Light Industry had already been added to the bathwater, filling the bathroom with a pleasant fragrance. This was a luxury item sold together with the bathroom. It was actually just a distillate of some natural spices. The Ministry of Light Industry's accompanying booklet hinted that using it in the bathwater had an aphrodisiac effect, which made the wealthy men who bought the bathtubs flock to it, but it was purely a gimmick.