---
layout: post
title: "Chapter 243: The Shopkeeper and the Artist"
category: 5
path: 2012-8-27-5-24300.md
tag: [normal]
---

According to Shan Daoqian's standards, Lin'gao's train could only be considered an urban rail transit system. It was expanded from the factory rail car lines originally used to transport goods. It was used to transport products, raw materials, and workers. This line network had now developed, from gas-powered locomotives to "Meteor" steam locomotives, and the route had expanded from a small railway running within the factory area to the entire county. The operating line extended from the Wenlan Bridge station outside the county seat, along the Wenlan River to Bopu, and then from Bopu to Maniao, connecting the entire main industrial and port areas of Lin'gao.

Van der Lenteren and Trini were in the first-class car. Due to the smoke and steam, the first-class car was attached at the end. The first-class car was a little more advanced than the cars in front. The cars in front were flat open-top cars, for both passengers and cargo. When used as passenger cars, a fence was installed on all four sides. The passengers sat on the floor, and when there was no more room, they stood crowded together. Because it was completely open-air, there was no ventilation problem.

Only on rare occasions, such as when a major ceremony or celebration was held, would a few rows of wooden benches be temporarily installed on the flatcars.

Of course, there was no roof on the flatcars. When it rained or the temperature was too high, a temporary canvas canopy would be installed. When the train was running, the smoke and steam were enough to suffocate the passengers in the first two cars. The rails were standard gauge, but they were light forged iron rails, and the sleepers were also simple. The equipment of the entire rail transit system was so rudimentary that it was outrageous.

But this simple motorized transport was also a revolution for Lin'gao's industry. The small train allowed a large number of laborers to move quickly from one place to another, and workers could commute in the shortest possible time. The scale of Lin'gao's factory areas was getting larger and larger, and the workers' residential areas had to be built farther away from the factory areas.

The first-class car where the two Europeans were located was for the exclusive use of the Elders and the natives and naturalized citizens who were willing to pay a high price. Although the chassis of the car was the same as the flatcar, it had a car body, not only with glass-inlaid windows but also with blinds, which provided ventilation and protection from the sun on hot days. There were also seats in the car.

Van der Lenteren looked around the empty carriage with great interest. This time, there were only the two of them in the first-class car.

"Is this the so-called first class?" Van der Lenteren saw that the furnishings and decorations in the carriage were very simple, although they were all very practical. Even in his Dutch eyes, the Australians' "first class" was far from worthy of the name.

Trini said, "Yes, the Australians are naturally simple. Secondly, their so-called first class is in comparison to the cars in front."

"Oh?" Van der Lenteren stuck his head out of the window with great interest and looked. Each car in front was crowded with passengers and goods. Passengers who couldn't squeeze in were hanging on the fences, and some had climbed onto the piles of goods on the flatcars, perched high above.

"What a magnificent sight," Van der Lenteren said with a smile. "But I have my doubts. With so many people and goods, what on earth pulls the train you mentioned? And it can run as fast as a horse? You said in your report that it is a machine of fire and water. Is it really that miraculous?"

"That's right," Trini said. "In my humble opinion, the Australians have mastered many of God's secrets that we have not yet known..."

Van der Lenteren was a Protestant and sneered at the Catholic faith. He snorted, "I think it's the devil's secrets—just like your learned compatriot, da Vinci."

Trini did not speak. He felt that there was nothing to discuss with this small shopkeeper from the Netherlands on this issue. Protestants were no more崇尚科學 (advocates of science) than Catholics, sometimes even the opposite. The "father of blood circulation" was burned at the stake by Calvinists in Switzerland. Trini knew that it was best for him to keep his mouth shut on scientific issues. Although the Netherlands was the most religiously tolerant place in Europe, the East India Company in Batavia was not tolerant at all.

Originally, he wanted to talk to Van der Lenteren about his views on the "train" based on his observations, but seeing that this person was obviously unlearned, he gave up the idea. At this moment, the carriage shook violently, the steel creaked, and the carriage slowly rolled on the track.

Twenty minutes later, the Dutchman and the Italian got off at the "Trading Post" station. A two-wheeled Dongfeng carriage was waiting in front of the station—it was a public car sent by the Colonial and Trade Department.

The "Trading Post" was a project jointly declared by the Colonial and Trade Department and the General Office. During the typhoon and rainstorm this year, Lin'gao had also suffered a disaster. Although no one was displaced, many lands were flooded, including many fields that the Agricultural Committee was preparing to reclaim. The "Trading Post" was one of the flooded lands, but it had not yet been reclaimed.

The reason it was flooded was that this area was a low-lying area behind the beach sandbar. The land at the edge of the land would slide into the sea year after year, and the tide would bring back sand to form a beach. The wind would blow the sand to the land, forming a natural sandbar several meters high and dozens of meters wide. Behind the sandbar was sunken land. After doing some leveling, the Agricultural Committee found that the saline-alkali treatment here was far beyond the current productivity. Then it was soaked by a rainstorm again, and the investment in this land was considered a tuition fee. In the end, the Agricultural Committee decided to abandon the agricultural development of this land and let the Forestry Department take over the transformation.

The Forestry Department decided to transform the entire coastal low-lying area into a mangrove forest to fix the sand and resist the wind, reducing the erosion of the coastline by the waves. A little further inland, it would be turned into a coconut tree plantation.

To the east of this low-lying area was a low hill, and beyond that was Maniao. With the opening of the railway from Bopu to Maniao, the Executive Committee General Office and the Colonial Department decided to transform this land into a future state guesthouse and embassy district. The first was to invite the East India Company to move in, and to use the money paid by the East India Company to build a small reservoir by damming a nearby mountain stream to supply water to the vicinity. If generators could be mass-produced in the future, they could also generate some small hydropower.

The carriage carried them along the road and soon arrived at the trading post area. It was still a barren area. Besides the leveled land, there were only a few isolated wooden houses, and some houses were still under construction.

The Dutch East India Company's trading post was being built, or more accurately, the foundation was being dug. Trini had designed a rather sturdy and beautiful two-story brick and stone hall. However, the Lin'gao Construction Company stated that the construction period would be two years. So the current trading post was two simple and beautiful wooden houses, which were prefabricated houses designed by Zhang Xingpei. It took only a week to assemble and decorate them completely, which amazed Trini.

One of the two wooden houses was for office use and the other for living. The roof flew the Prince's flag and the company flag. Trini welcomed him into the living room. The living room was already decorated with furniture and handicrafts purchased from Batavia and Guangzhou. The walls were hung with oil paintings of the Prince of Orange and the company's directors, looking quite grand.

Although an Italian lived in the house, the house still maintained the Dutch's love of cleanliness: neat and tidy. One of Trini's Dutch servants washed the whole house every day. Trini suspected that this servant was most likely sent by the company to secretly monitor him.

The two sat down, and the servant brought local soft drinks. They sat on Lin'gao-produced rattan sofas. Van der Lenteren had a bellyful of questions. Now that he was on his own turf, he immediately began to ask. Trini was obviously prepared for this.

"Mr. Trini, please tell me clearly, what is the military strength of the Australians?"

"Very great," Trini said clearly. "The potential is inestimable—terrifying."

"Oh? What gives you that feeling?"

"You have just taken their train."

"Yes, the Australians' train, very special."

"You must have seen the military use of the train."

"The train is indeed powerful, but it is just a means of transportation. No matter how good a carriage is, it cannot fight a war."

"You seem to have forgotten what our master relies on to dominate the seas—ships."

"This is different. A train cannot go into the sea. Besides, this kind of train must run on a track. I don't see much military value in it."

"The train you just took can now run 5 leagues per hour. I have also seen it run 10 leagues. Now the Australians have connected their core ruling area, Lin'gao-Bairen-Bopu-Maniao, with a railway..."

"It's just for transporting goods and craftsmen and farmers."

"They can use the train to transport troops from one place to another in a few hours. And they also have special trains for combat, equipped with cannons and an evil weapon they call a typewriter. Not even a thousand well-ordered Swedish infantry could stand for a quarter of an hour in front of an armored train. In fact, a hundred Australian soldiers with a few cannons could tear a thousand of Europe's best infantry to pieces."

"You are exaggerating."

"I swear to God, my words are not false."

"Alright," Van der Lenteren nodded. "I will write your exact words in the report." He didn't want to continue on this issue now. "Now, the company wants to know, are the Australians preparing any activity against the company?"

"As far as I know, no," Trini hesitated, and this expression was quickly caught by Van der Lenteren.

"To be honest, Mr. Trini," Van der Lenteren lowered his voice and said, "you know, a few months ago, an Australian ship went to Formosa..."

"Did it go to the port of Tayouan?"

"No, they did not enter the port, but continued south along the coastline to a barren coast. And they landed there. According to the various news we have received from the natives, it must be the Australians."