---
layout: post
title: Chapter 109 - Operational Flow
category: 5
path: 2012-4-15-5-10900.md
tag: [normal]
---

Lin'gao's standard code system was, to be specific, a copy of the NSN (National Stock Number). The NSN's sorting rule is 4+2+7 digits. The first 4 digits are the classification code. Before 1974, the code was a 4+7 format, with the latter being a serial number. From 1951 to 1974, a 7-digit code called the FSN (Federal Stock Number) was used. After 1974, a two-digit country code was added before the serial number, which can now support up to 1-10 billion items and parts. The Americans themselves used 00, 01, and 02, which means they have used a total of over 20 million numbers. The FSN previously had no classification code, only a serial number. At the beginning of World War II, it was 5 digits, and at the end of the war, it was 6 digits.

"The US military has only used 20 million numbers. Even if we were to extend it to the entire industrial field, the total number of types would not exceed 20 million. We will remain at the five-digit level for a long time. So, for now, a 4+2+5 digit system is sufficient. We can add more digits later, similar to a phone number upgrade."

"The biggest advantage of this American coding system is that the categories are already pre-divided. It's easy to retrieve any category of items by following the category number, and then you can quickly find any specific item within it."

By adopting a standard code system, even if it was temporarily impossible to use computers for management, it would at least lay the foundation for future electromechanical card database management.

Si Kaide took a sip of water: "Aren't we short of people now? We should reduce repetitive labor as much as possible. By coding all existing parts and creating files, when someone needs something, they can check first. If it's universal, they can use it. This will save manpower, especially for Elders who are designers and engineers. It's also very convenient for organizing logistics and supply."

"Based on the recent internal trial run in my Colonial Department, we are currently using only a few thousand types of raw materials and parts, which is less than the number of parts in a small car from the old world. The entire archive can be managed by two or three natives. If I want to check the file of any product, someone will bring it to my desk within three minutes. In the future, when there are more items, it will still be a human-powered database. I propose to establish a standardized central information archive where all departments can come to search and consult to improve efficiency."

"You are too idealistic. Without the support of a modern IT industry, without barcodes, automatic scanners, and databases, a standard code system can only achieve low-level functions. At that time, just compiling a reference book will become a complex issue," said an Elder who had worked with ERP, expressing that this was an unrealistic "Great Leap Forward."

"It's not that complicated," Si Kaide said with conviction. "This system existed during World War II, and they didn't have the things you're talking about back then."

He continued to explain: the purpose of the classification code is to assign different things to different people. A major category is assigned to a logistics department, such as the electronics section or the hydraulics section. A minor category or several minor categories are assigned to a person or a small group. Specific management is directly assigned to individuals. If there is a problem with the items someone is responsible for, if the files are not standardized, or if they can't keep up with development, their salary will be deducted.

The original serial number remains a serial number and continues to be arranged in order. This part is managed by a master catalog.

"...Although we don't have computers, these codes can be managed by Guihua clerical staff. With simple training in library retrieval skills, they can master the use of card indexes and file compilation. At our current level of technological development, we will use at most a dozen major categories of standard codes and less than a hundred minor categories. The total number of codes will be at most a few tens of thousands. A professional team of twenty to thirty people can manage it well, with at most a few supervisors to check for errors."

Before the IT system, the FSN had a complete paper-based system that operated through forms. This system was used for decades. Even after the advent of IT equipment and software, this paper system still existed as a backup, except that it was now printed directly from the database for archiving.

"To further explain how this system works, I will use the Hong Kong shipyard as an example," Si Kaide said. "In fact, it is mainly about form operations. Different activities have different forms."

For example, if the shipyard needs 20-centimeter ship nails of a certain model, it can give a request form to the Guangzhou station. The Guangzhou station will then notify qualified native workshops and craftsmen to quote, and then sign a contract to buy the goods. Dabo Shipping, as the receiving agent, will sign for the goods one by one with the form and then transfer them to Shi Jiantao. Delong will pay based on the signed receipts.

Each workshop of the shipyard submits its daily requisition plan to the warehouse. The warehouse determines the inventory plan based on consumption and stock levels. After the plan is approved, it is transferred to the supporting department, which then places an order with the Guangzhou station. After Dabo Shipping receives the ship, it also accepts repair parts. Based on the consumption rate of the parts, a warning line is set. When the line is reached, a new order is placed.

"Similarly, we can also apply it to many other aspects such as logistics supply and trade management. When I first started working, these tasks could all be done manually. It's not that complex management cannot be implemented without a computer—it's just that the efficiency is lower. The purpose of the NSN code is to ensure that the transmitted information is not distorted at all stages of the process, and at the same time, all additionally generated information, such as the capability of a supplier, records and analysis of the failure and damage of the parts themselves, can be entered into the file according to a unique clue and then forwarded to the people who should know this information."

"In this way, the speed of information exchange becomes very important," Shi Jiantao expressed his concern.

"We have wireless and wired telegraphs, and we can exchange data via telegraph. More complex forms can be sent by mail."

"I have serious doubts about such data exchange. First of all, the timeliness is a mess. Secondly, are you underestimating the complexity..."

...

The two sides argued on this issue for more than ten minutes. Finally, everyone's eyes fell on Wu De, who was in a "thoughtful state." As the chairman of the meeting, he had the final say on this issue.

"Well, everyone has made very good points," he said, suddenly "waking up." To cover up his absent-mindedness, he cleared his throat. "I think the standard code system should still be implemented. It's better to do it sooner rather than later. While the variety of materials is still small, establishing the system first will save a lot of trouble in the future. I think we should follow Si Kaide's plan and see how it works."

At the meeting, it was decided to first implement the Imperial Standard Code system in the Hong Kong shipyard and the logistics command of the Fubo Army as pilot units.

After the meeting, Wu De picked up his fake BOSS briefcase and walked out of the Planning Department conference room. He had another meeting to attend. Just then, someone caught up with him from behind, taking two steps at a time.

"Ah De! Wait up."

"What's the matter?"

Si Kaide said, "This time, with the implementation of the standard code and the plan for outsourcing shipyard parts, can the letter of credit system also be launched in Guangzhou?"

"Let's discuss this later. I don't think there's any problem," Wu De had always been indifferent to things like letters of credit—the Planning Department had never been very interested in finance anyway. "As long as it's approved by the Executive Committee."

"The problem is that everyone doesn't seem to have enough understanding of this. The implementation of the letter of credit system is of great benefit to import and export trade. It's a mutually beneficial good thing, not some kind of financial trick..."

Wu De didn't pay much attention to Si Kaide's complaints. He had been somewhat absent-minded since the meeting began. The concept of the Imperial Stock Number was something he had strongly advocated. He was originally completely ignorant of the FSN concept; it was entirely the result of Hong Huangnan and Si Kaide's constant lobbying. And in the *Weekly Thoughts*, which was personally compiled by Wen Desi and circulated weekly to the Executive Committee, the Standing Committee of the Council of Elders, and the heads of various ministries and commissions, the concept of "standardization" of all things was also frequently mentioned.

It was under this dual stimulation that he became keenly interested in the FSN system and took the lead in preparing for its implementation. But having only a code system was just convenient for management; the objects to be managed were far from sufficient.

The Dengzhou and Zhejiang operations were imminent. The Council of Elders had no specific number for the population to be obtained from these two operations, only saying "transport with all our might, transport as many as we can." Although this was said, in a private conversation with Ma Qianzhu, Wu De believed that only by obtaining at least two hundred thousand people would these two operations be worthwhile. The number of refugees in Guangdong, Guangxi, Fujian, and Jiangxi had decreased, and the pace of population reception at various stations had slowed down considerably. Without artificially creating a crisis, it would be difficult to absorb a large number of new people from Guangdong.

"Those who come on their own are of course good, but compared to indentured servants, I still prefer indentured servants," Ma Qianzhu said. "They are more motivated in their work and easier to manage. Besides, we also need to change the population structure ratio."

The Council of Elders was also very dissatisfied with the current situation where there were too many people of Guangdong and Fujian origin among the Guihua. Most of the Guihua were from Guangdong. Due to geographical conditions, it was inevitable that the population of Guangdong and Fujian origin was the largest. In Lin'gao, Cantonese and Minnan dialects not only had the potential to replace the Lin'gao dialect, but even the official language, Mandarin, was at a disadvantage. Although the Elders vigorously promoted Mandarin in schools and government agencies, in production enterprises, these two dialects tended to become the common language among workers.

In the final draft of the population transport plan compiled by the Planning Department, it was planned to transport one hundred thousand people from northern Zhejiang and at least one hundred thousand people from Dengzhou. The vast majority of them would be transported back to Lin'gao, with ten thousand settled in Taiwan and Hong Kong. In addition, two to three thousand people would be settled locally in Zhejiang as labor for Zhao Yigong's industries in Jiangsu and Zhejiang.