---
layout: post
title: "Chapter 244: The Company's Worries and Ambitions"
category: 5
path: 2012-8-28-5-24400.md
tag: [normal]
---

The news that the Australians had appeared in Formosa made the leaders of the East India Company in Batavia nervous. Although the trading post in Tayouan was not running as well as they had hoped, and its importance had greatly decreased after signing the trade agreement with the Australians, as a direct window for trade with China, Formosa's position was still crucial.

The fact that the Australians had sent ships to spy on Formosa was terrible news for the Dutch. For this reason, de Carpentier and the Council of the Indies in Batavia had sent the *Magdeburg* on a risky voyage to Lin'gao during the typhoon season to gather information.

Trini understood why they were so anxious. He pondered for a moment and said, "For the past few months, I have felt that they are planning a major operation. But I cannot say that this operation is aimed at the company."

He then talked about the large-scale activities he had witnessed in Lin'gao: the large amount of import and export of goods, the frequent transfer of personnel, and the active shipbuilding. He had a clear feeling that the Australians had entered a state of pre-war preparation.

"All of the Australians' institutions, factories, and ships are running at full speed..." Mr. Trini said, "especially the ships entering and leaving the port are very frequent, constantly transporting goods in and out. And you know, now is not the trading season."

"If that's the case, why do you still think that the Australians' preparatory actions are not aimed at the company?"

"It's simple. Because they are preparing equipment for use in cold northern regions," Trini said. "Many of the materials on the order list they submitted to the company cannot be used in Formosa. I think you are also very clear about this."

With this reminder, Van der Lenteren remembered that the Australians' recent orders included a lot of woolen cloth and leather, and they had also purchased raw wool from Persia and raw cotton from India. These goods could not be used in Formosa.

"Secondly, forgive me for being blunt, but I don't think the company's entire force in East Asia is enough to warrant such extensive war preparations by the Australians. Their opponents are much stronger and much larger than our masters."

Van der Lenteren nodded. "What you said makes a lot of sense. However, to reassure the Governor and the gentlemen of the Council of the Indies, I still hope to know exactly where they intend to strike—and why they went to Formosa."

"I believe their target is the Ming country, that is, the Chinese. They may have gone to Formosa for various reasons—for example, to obtain a midway stopover point. I can't know the specifics..."

"Please continue."

"The Ming country is vast, with a large population and unparalleled wealth. The Australians have come to East Asia from afar, and they have such a powerful military force. If their target of conquest and plunder does not include the Ming country, I would be very surprised," Trini said. "Besides, they specifically chose this place, Lin'gao."

"Alright, assuming the Australians are about to launch an invasion of the Ming country, what do you think their chances of victory are?"

"There is no doubt that they can easily defeat a Chinese army ten times their size, but it is obviously difficult to conquer the entire of China—at least not in the short term," Trini said. "China is too vast. To conquer such a country, the Australians' strength is still a little small."

"Assuming, just assuming, if one day the company has to go to war with the Australians, can the company achieve a favorable peace settlement?"

"Forgive me for being blunt, but I'm afraid it will be very difficult. Peace will surely come, but the outcome may not be favorable," Trini said. "The Australians' military potential is astonishing. Once it is fully operational, I'm afraid no one will be their match."

"What if before their potential is fully developed?"

"Is this also part of your mission this time?"

"There are three or four directors—you must understand, they are the masters, and they are not in Batavia. So they proposed... to assess... whether it is worth seizing the Australians' territory."

Lin'gao was bustling and prosperous compared to the desolate Tayouan. It had been fully developed, with many military industries and large shipyards. Its comprehensive strength was much stronger than that of the Portuguese in Macau. If it could be seized, it would obviously be a very ideal base for trade with China and even for trade in East Asia.

The Council of Elders was well aware of the task assigned to Trini but did not mind it.

Since the Council of Elders was about to launch the Engine Project, it did not want to disperse its forces for unexpected attackers. Therefore, it was very eager to let the Dutch understand that its military strength was not something anyone could challenge.

So, Trini was sometimes even invited by the Foreign Intelligence Bureau to observe the army and navy training and was allowed to draw the Fubo Army at close range. However, the Australians had many requirements for the paintings, such as the head-to-body ratio of the soldiers had to be 1:7, the muscles had to be Greek-style, and the shoulders had to be the shape of the Germans...

But these were similar to the scholastic paintings of the Renaissance, so Trini was naturally happy to comply.

"I have no intention of offending the gentlemen, but this idea is—too crazy. The Australians have great confidence in their own military power. They show it to me very casually and let me send the albums back to Batavia continuously."

"Then what do you think?"

"From my personal observation, the Australian soldiers are actually local natives, the vast majority of whom are Chinese. Only a very small number of officers are Australians. When they recruit soldiers from the mainland, their physique is very poor—not much better than the monkeys in Southeast Asia. But now, their speed and accuracy in shooting with firearms are terrifying. I have never seen such powerful professional soldiers... The officers are also very excellent—led by some Australian professional soldiers who are no less than the officers under Gustavus Adolphus. I have seen many times, they get up before dawn, and then walk silently from one county to another."

"So they don't march on foot because they don't have ships."

"They just let their army practice crossing mountains and ridges quickly and then immediately go into battle. In fact, every soldier has to do this kind of exercise."

"The great Hannibal... perhaps?"

"It's hard for me to judge whether they are at Hannibal's level, Your Excellency, but their combat power obviously surpasses most of the armies I have seen."

"As for ships, they don't have enough ships now, but they will have many in the future. Your Excellency, please be sure to take this album back and tell the gentlemen in Batavia that the Australians built a ship of several hundred tons in fourteen weeks."

"What?!"

"Their shipyard is very efficient, but I have never been able to get close. From a distance, it seems that many ships are being built side by side at the same time. The second ship of the same type was launched 10 days later."

"This is too amazing. I think I should still see it with my own eyes."

"Before you leave, you will see the next one launched."

"Do you think the Australians have any intention of expanding south?"

"It's a matter of time," Trini smiled slightly. "When you have an unparalleled army and a powerful fleet, will you let them go home and farm?"

"Your work is really excellent. I will recommend you to the Council of the Indies in Batavia."

"It's alright, no need. I am an Italian. Italians have no motherland. My motherland is the job my employer gives me."

"What do you think of Lin'gao?"

"I really wish Lin'gao was in Italy."

"Fortunately, Lin'gao is not in Italy," Van der Lenteren said.

"It doesn't matter where Lin'gao is." Trini realized that Van der Lenteren's questioning had come to an end. He stood up, took a bottle of rum from the liquor cabinet, took out two bottles of "soda water" and two glasses, and took some crushed ice from the "refrigerator." He mixed two glasses of rum and soda in the local fashionable way.

"A pleasant enjoyment," Van der Lenteren said appreciatively after drinking.

"Let our masters consider the Australians' ambitions or goals. Now I have an Australian project to propose to the Council of the Indies."

"Oh? Was it proposed by the Australians?"

"That's right. The Australians provided me with a batch of agricultural books and pictures and asked me to translate them into an illustrated book," Trini said, handing him a thick notebook. He sat down on the sofa and continued to explain, "The Australians are preparing to provide us with some seedlings and let the company plant them on a small island in the Moluccas. They will purchase the mature crops."

"What is it?"

"As far as I can see, it seems to be a rubber tree."

"A rubber tree?" Although the rubber tree and rubber had been known since Columbus's time, Europeans were still very unfamiliar with this plant at this time. Trini had some knowledge of natural history and was able to recognize this plant that was not seen in Europe.

"Yes, a plant from the Americas..."

Trini became interested. "Have they also been to the Americas?"

"It's very possible. Otherwise, how could they provide rubber tree seedlings?"

"What use do they have for these rubber trees? Why don't they plant them on the land they occupy—you said that the Australians now actually occupy the entire island."

"I think they lack sufficient labor. As for the use of rubber trees, I'm not sure either." Trini knew that rubber trees could secrete a viscous colloid. The Indians used it to kick as a ball and could also use it to waterproof cloth—but it would become hard once it dried, so it had no practical value.

The fact that the Australians wanted the company to plant this plant obviously meant that they had mastered some technology to use this colloid. The Moluccas were hotter and rainier than Lin'gao, and the climate was similar to the origin of rubber. It was not surprising that the Australians had such an idea.

"In addition, I believe that since the Australians want the company to promote the cultivation of these crops in the Moluccas, they will not be interested in the company's property for at least seven years—otherwise, wouldn't their investment become worthless?"

"Why seven years?"

"Because it takes at least seven years for rubber to be planted and to produce the colloid they need."