---
layout: post
title: Section 60: The Warring States in Zhangzhou Bay
category: 6
path: 2013-6-12-6-06000.md
tag: [normal]
---

The Jinjiang County School, usually quiet, was now bustling with hundreds of members of the Zheng clan who had taken refuge there. The sounds of adults talking and children crying and playing filled the air. From time to time, blue smoke from cooking fires rose from the hall.

The Zheng clan members, shopkeepers, and generals' families who had been lucky enough to escape with Zheng Zhiguan had been staying here since they fled into Jinjiang County. The Zheng clan had great power in Jinjiang and Nan'an counties, and many people had property there. Therefore, those with wealth and power soon went to their relatives and friends or to their own manors to live. The people in the county school gradually dispersed. However, the distant relatives, middle and lower-level personnel's families, scattered servants, shop assistants, and personal guards who had escaped from Anping City had nowhere to go. They waited here bitterly for the day they could return to Anping.

In the hall behind the county school, more than a hundred people were crowded in the hall, side rooms, and courtyard. Many of them were dark-skinned black soldiers, and there were also many Japanese samurai with katanas.

After Tong Tailang and his men escaped from Jinmen Island with Zheng Sen, they did not dare to stay on the shore for long. After all, Tong Tailang was a foreigner and was not familiar with the coastal geography. He took Zheng Sen and fled to Jinjiang County, which he had been to many times and was most familiar with.

Along the way, Tong Tailang gathered many scattered soldiers and fled all the way to Jinjiang. Many Zheng clan members who had fled from Jinmen, Xiamen, Anping, and other places had already gathered in Jinjiang County.

However, Zheng Zhiguan, the highest-ranking person in the city, seemed to have no interest in the heir of the Zheng family. He did not even come to pay a formal visit, but only sent a servant to send some money, rice, and clothes, and then there was no news.

Besides Zheng Zhiguan, the Zheng clan seemed to have forgotten them. No one came to inquire about Tong Tailang and his party. Such disregard surprised Tong Tailang very much. The head of the family was already dead, and the young master left behind was the natural heir. Why did no one come to support him? At first, he thought that others did not know that Zheng Sen had escaped from the tiger's mouth, so he sent people to look for the escaped members of the Eighteen芝, especially the "one family" of the Zheng clan, but so far, no one had come.

The scattered soldiers gathered in the county school all regarded the young master as their last straw. They were all from the lower class and had little savings. Once the Zheng family collapsed, they would be unemployed. Of course, they all hoped that the young master could inherit the position of the head of the family, so that they could at least have the sentiment of "sharing weal and woe."

Although Tong Tailang knew little about the power struggle within the Zheng clan, he also knew that it would be very difficult to gather the Zheng family together after the leader, Zheng Zhilong, was gone.

It was formally correct for Zheng Zhilong's eldest son, Zheng Sen, to inherit his father's position. But Zheng Sen was only seven years old this year, and any discerning person knew that he could not possibly have the ability to lead the Zheng family through the crisis.

If Zheng Sen ascended the throne, he would need a strong assistant to control the situation.

Logically speaking, this was a good opportunity to hold the emperor hostage to command the feudal lords. There were many examples in both China and Japan of powerful ministers who assisted the young master and usurped power and acted tyrannically. Zheng Sen should have been a hot commodity, but unexpectedly, no one paid any attention to him.

Even Zheng Zhilong's brothers did not show any intention of assisting their nephew. Only Zheng Zhifeng sent someone to send money and rice, saying that Anping, Jinmen, and Xiamen were all in ruins, and it was impossible to settle them for a while. They could only be wronged to continue living in the county school.

Then there was no further news. After all, Tong Tailang was a foreigner and was at a loss.

In these days, only Matos, who had escaped from death, came here with the remnants of the black guards, dozens of them. However, this non-Portuguese mixed-blood could not offer any suggestions.

Now there was only one person Tong Tailang could discuss with, Qian Taichong.

This Qian Taichong was originally an ordinary clerk under Zheng Zhipeng. It was said that he was originally from Guangdong and was recommended here to make a living. Now that his master was killed in battle, he had also become unemployed.

Tong Tailang felt that Qian Taichong was a very mysterious person. Although he was a scholar, he was dark-skinned, strong, and had calluses on his hands and feet. He looked like someone from a laboring background. Once, Tong Tailang saw him fetching water to bathe and found that he had many scars on his body, as if he had been on the battlefield before.

But Qian Taichong almost never talked about his past and often sat alone in a daze. It was not until a few days ago, when Tong Tailang wanted to ask an envoy to go to Zheng Zhifeng as a lobbyist, that he had contact with Qian Taichong.

Tong Tailang believed that Zheng Zhifeng was Zheng Sen's uncle and one of the powerful figures in the Zheng family. It was most appropriate for him to come forward to assist the young master. Therefore, he had always wanted to persuade him. But he was after all a Japanese warrior, and it was really difficult to be a lobbyist, so he took a fancy to this taciturn scholar.

Qian Taichong took the travel expenses without saying a word and left. A few days later, he returned with a few hundred taels of silver but still had nothing to show for it.

"He's not willing to send someone to welcome the young master?!" Tong Tailang was extremely disappointed.

"He only said that Jinmen Island is currently in ruins, and there are many corpses that have not been cleaned up and buried. It would be very inconvenient for the young master to move there. He asked the young master to rest in Jinjiang for a while longer."

"Bastard!" Tong Tailang cursed. "The master's bones are not yet cold, and they are already treating the young master like this!"

Tong Tailang had a reason to be so angry. Yesterday, he had sent an envoy to Zheng Zhiguan, asking him to clean up a manor of the Zheng family in Jinjiang County and let Zheng Sen and his party move in. It was very inconvenient for several hundred people to live in the county school.

Unexpectedly, Zheng Zhiguan, who had already taken over all the Zheng family's manors in Jinjiang County, refused on the grounds that "the髡(kūn) bandits have not been cleared, and it is not safe to live outside the city."

"It seems we can only look for the Zheng Lian and Zheng Cai brothers..." Tong Tailang was at a loss.

"Isn't looking for them like asking a tiger for its skin?" Qian Taichong said.

Tong Tailang was stunned. So far, this scholar had not expressed any specific views. Now that he was willing to speak his mind, he couldn't help but feel a surge of energy. He quickly said, "What is your esteemed opinion, sir?"

"I have no esteemed opinion, but since even his own uncle is unwilling to step forward, how can they, as outsiders, be expected to?" Qian Taichong said with a bit of melancholy. "The two Zheng brothers were originally an independent force who later came to serve under the general. They were originally borrowing the general's power. Now that the general is dead, and they have occupied Xiamen Island, they probably plan to do their own business. Why would they want to support the young master?"

Tong Tailang was deeply disappointed.

"So Xiamen Island has become the world of the Zheng Lian and Zheng Cai brothers?!"

"Zhangzhou Bay is now the Seven Warring States," Qian Taichong said contemptuously. "Everyone is making their own plans, and it has nothing to do with the young master."

While Zheng Sen and the others were sitting idly in the Jinjiang County School, the members of the Eighteen芝 who had not been killed in battle or captured were engaged in a fierce struggle over the corpse of the Zheng clan.

The most powerful, Zheng Zhifeng, occupied Jinmen Island. Zheng Zhibao occupied Little Jinmen Island. The Zheng Lian and Zheng Cai brothers occupied Xiamen Island. Although Zheng Zhiguan was quick to escape from Anping, as soon as he heard that the髡(kūn) thieves had withdrawn from Anping, he immediately armed the tenants on his manor, as well as his personal soldiers and servants, and "recaptured" Anping with great fanfare.

The rest of the Zheng family's generals either joined one of the forces, or occupied a small island in Zhangzhou Bay. Some who were weak and unsure of the direction the wind was blowing stayed on the shore or entered the Jiulong River and Shijing River to wait and see. The huge Zheng clan was like it had fallen apart.

Although the Zheng clan had been established under Zheng Zhilong, its internal cohesion was still very weak. It was basically maintained by Zheng Zhilong's personal prestige. Now that the Zheng clan had suffered an unprecedented heavy blow, and the leader and a large number of key members had been killed in battle, the weakness of its lack of cohesion was immediately exposed.

On this sea where anyone with a boat and men could be a king, the title of Zheng Zhilong's legitimate son was useless. He had no direct power under his name. As soon as Zheng Zhilong died, the remaining army, ships, and property were quickly carved up by the survivors in the upper echelons of the group. Except for Zheng Zhilong's personal black guards and Japanese guards, no one took him seriously.

As for the generals and shopkeepers, they were weak and could only join one side. It was even more impossible for them to pin their future on a seven-year-old child.

"It's a pity I have no soldiers," although Tong Tailang had only experienced the tail end of the Warring States period, he deeply understood the importance of military power. But this disastrous defeat had caused heavy losses to the black guards and Japanese guards. Those who were killed, captured, and scattered were almost completely wiped out.

"The people gathered here now probably all want to follow the young master," Qian Taichong suddenly said.

"How many people can that be?" Tong Tailang said. "My men, plus Matos's, are less than two hundred in total." Tong Tailang suddenly understood Qian Taichong's meaning and asked:

"You mean..."

"It doesn't matter if there are few people. As long as they dare to fight, they are still stronger than a motley crew," a gleam of light flashed in Qian Taichong's eyes. "Besides, we may not need to fight."

Although the Zheng clan was already in a state of disunity, they were still of the same clan. At present, the situation would not lead to fighting among the same clan, but various forms of struggle around the leadership would be inevitable. At such a time, the number of personal soldiers was indeed a key issue, but it was by no means the main issue.

Tong Tailang realized that this scholar had a clear plan and was a "strategist." He was now in need of someone who could give him ideas. He quickly said, "Please teach me, Mr. Qian!"

Qian Taichong smiled, "General Tong, you are from the East. Why do you want to protect the young master and help him ascend the throne? What does the survival of the Zheng family have to do with you?"

"This was the general's last entrustment," Tong Tailang said in a loud voice. "We were forced to leave the East and have been serving under the general for all these years, able to live a comfortable life with food and clothing. Shouldn't we repay his kindness?"

"Hehe, well said!" Qian Taichong nodded. "Then I will help you."