---
layout: post
title: "Section 253: Everyone Has Their Own Agenda (Part 4)"
category: 6
path: 2013-12-22-6-25300.md
tag: [normal]
---

"It's still useful. You should go home, take a shower, and get a good night's sleep. Don't worry too much about Yang Jihong's matter. You have to trust the organization. I have already instructed the training center to assign you a maid to take care of your daily life. Of course, it's temporary. How you arrange it in the future is up to you."

After seeing off the dazed Transmigrator Yang, [Xiao Zishan][y001] cranked the phone twice and picked it up: "Connect me to the Fangcaodi Principal's Office!"

The call went through quickly. A transmigrator of this level would not go home to sleep so early.

"Zhixiang."

"Is that [Director Xiao][y001]? What can I do for you so late? Are you also recommending a few life secretaries to attend senior primary school? No problem!"

"You know about Yang Xinwu's matter, right? He came to see me again today and even offered to take the blame himself!"

"Damn! There's such a thing?!"

"Xinwu is a person who values relationships and is a bit sentimental. It's inevitable that he's a little reckless in his words after being stimulated by Yang Jihong's arrest. You, as the principal, should care more about your comrades!"

"[Director Xiao][y001], don't worry. Ziguang and I were just about to go see Xinwu. I've already prepared the wine. No problem, leave it to me."

"I see that his health is not very good. If the school's work schedule allows, I suggest you arrange a convalescent leave for him."

"I'll do it right away!"

[Xiao Zishan][y001] put down the phone and looked at the dark night outside the window. It seemed that the water in Lin Xiaoya's case was very deep! Transmigrator Yang's sudden madness today was a bit unreasonable. He had to be distracted as soon as possible.

He picked up the receiver again:

"Is this the training center? This is [Xiao Zishan][y001]. Have you selected the candidates I asked for last time? The grade doesn't matter, the key is that the cup size must be D. I know there are very few who meet the conditions. Select as many as you can. Send their files to my desk tomorrow morning. Yes, I want to see them after I get to work."

He put down the phone, thought for a moment, and then took out a PHS from his locked drawer and dialed a number:

"Nanhai? Are you still at the teahouse? It's been hard on you. There's something. Do you know a transmigrator named Yang Xinwu? That's good. Long story short: I heard he's been hanging around your place lately. I'd like to ask you a favor. Check who visited your teahouse tonight. It would be even better if your people can recall who saw this Transmigrator Yang. You can give me the news tomorrow? Great!"

Yang Xinwu was sent home by the staff of the General Office. He didn't even wash up and went straight to bed, sleeping until the next day when it was broad daylight. He took out his watch and saw that it was already nine o'clock in the morning—this had never happened since D-Day. He usually arrived at his office in Fangcaodi at half past six.

He quickly got up and called Zhang Zhixiang on his PHS. Before he could speak, the other party had already spoken:

"The General Office informed us yesterday that you need a convalescent leave. You should rest at home for the next few days. Ziguang and I will come to see you after work." Zhang Zhixiang's tone was a bit strange. It was a well-known fact that a holiday was a fantasy for a transmigrator.

A full night's sleep had cleared his previously muddled head. He had not felt so clear-headed and refreshed for days. It was as if his whole person had been revived. His chaotic mind suddenly had a clue.

"What the hell have I done!" Yang Xinwu grabbed his hair, suddenly realizing what a stupid thing he had done last night.

Cheng Yong... He originally wanted to curse the woman who had talked nonsense to him last night and almost made him take a misstep that he would regret for the rest of his life, but he suddenly found that he had forgotten her name. Now, trying hard to recall, he couldn't even remember her face clearly. He only vaguely remembered a general outline and the feeling of a "stunning glance" in his mind.

Now, thinking back, he had vaguely realized at the time that this woman had the intention of using him. Although he was not clear about her motives, at that time, when he was at a dead end, it seemed to be the only feasible way. Secondly, at that time, he had been tortured by the anger of disappointment and had given up on himself. He found that he could not exert any influence on this matter! He had to wait quietly for the verdict made by the will of some people he didn't know where they were sitting!

He didn't know who these people were, what they would base their decisions on, or even on which day they would make their decisions.

He went everywhere begging, to every place he could think of that might be related to the case. Every place gave him polite and even warm and considerate comfort, but there was not a single useful answer.

A strong sense of humility in the face of the organization enveloped him. The Senate was such a behemoth. Although he was called a transmigrator, he was pitifully small!

He took up a teaching post, on the one hand, because he valued education and believed that someone needed to do the obscure work, and on the other hand, because he wanted to stay away from the factional struggles in the Senate. He had had enough of this kind of thing in the bank.

But being far away from the power struggle also meant being far away from the center of power. There was a price to pay for being a "soy sauce" character. Now he deeply understood what this price was.

He thought of the advice Old Wu had given him a few days ago when he was drinking alone at the Farm Café:

"You just need to say one sentence in a public setting in court: 'I respect the law. Jihong deserves to be punished by the law for her crime, but after all, she is the woman I spent my early days of transmigration with, and she is the mother of my unborn child. So my home will always have a place for her.' With this sentence, whether it's the Arbitration Tribunal or the Executive Committee, they will have to give you some face. After all, you are a transmigrator."

But... this was so damn humiliating! If he had to suffer this kind of humiliation in this time and space, he might as well have accepted the punishment at the bank, lived on social security, and gone out to collect debts!

In comparison, the suggestion proposed by that Cheng something had a bit of a desperate, earth-shattering effect. Just thinking about it made one's blood boil. Unfortunately, it was too much of a trap. If he really jumped in, he would be buried.

He was lost in his own thoughts, fuming. The doorbell rang. He opened the door and saw that it was the principal, Zhang Zhixiang, and behind him was his close friend from school, Yuan Ziguang. Yuan Ziguang was carrying a few bottles of wine, and Zhang Zhixiang was holding a large rattan basket, from which a fragrant smell was already wafting.

Principal Zhang was a culinary master with a chef's certificate. However, because he was busy with work, he only personally cooked at large occasions such as teacher gatherings or the Senate's annual meeting. He was usually too lazy to cook for himself and ate at the school cafeteria. This time, he had personally cooked, which was a great show of concern.

Zhang Zhixiang said with a smile, "Old Yang, I know you're not feeling well. Let's have a good chat."

Because no one had cleaned up, Yang Xinwu's dormitory was a mess. The three of them cleared a space in the living room, and put the wine and food on the table.

Zhang Zhixiang poured half a glass of rum, filled it with soda, and handed it to Yang Xinwu:

"A man shouldn't worry about not having a wife! Come, drink this rum. The world of the Senate is ours. There are many lolis, onee-sans, and mature women waiting for us to enjoy. Don't be so wishy-washy."

"That's right, that's right. There's no obstacle that can't be overcome. A few of us are now preparing for the Plaid Skirt Club—we have something to do again." Yuan Ziguang's saliva almost dripped into his wine.

"What!? What kind of club is this? Why didn't you tell me? I'm warning you not to mess around!" Zhang Zhixiang's voice rose an octave.

"Boss, let me explain. This is a suggestion made by many transmigrators. The literary and artistic groups are seriously lacking in talent, so they have requested the Education Committee to set up special literary and artistic classes in Fangcaodi for targeted education. It's not some shameful perverted hobby." Yuan Ziguang quickly explained.

"I'm telling you, don't use public office for private gain and insert your perverted tastes! Be decent, I can't afford to lose face!"

"Don't worry, this time it's definitely a formal procedure. Haven't people in the Senate been complaining that there are too few literary and artistic activities? We are serving the Senate."

Yang Xinwu stared at them blankly, then downed a glass of wine: "Boss, Old Yuan, I have a question. Why did you come to this time and space?"

The few of them were stunned for a moment. Thoughts of a human museum, teaching all the young girls in the world, and uniform temptation flashed through their minds, and their thoughts were momentarily disconnected.

"We came to this time and space, aren't we pursuing a new life? Hoping to achieve something and become the decision-makers of this world? We originally thought that the new time and space has enough resources, and with the backing of the Senate, we could do a good job in our own field. When the organization grows stronger, we will have the opportunity to point out the mountains and rivers in the future. But it seems that our ideas are too naive! Where there are people, there is a jianghu. The Senate is a big jianghu, just like any other place we have been to in the past. We are comfortable in the ivory tower of Fangcaodi, but we are also being marginalized day by day and have lost our right to speak. This time, with Jihong's matter, besides going to [Director Xiao][y001]'s place every day to waste time, I can't do anything. I can't even hear any news. Yesterday, I was almost tricked by a woman!" He couldn't help but ask faintly, "Is the world of the Senate really ours?"

"This world is of course ours. As long as it's one person, one vote, even if we're just making up the numbers at a meeting, they still have to give us face," Zhang Zhixiang comforted him. "Your matter is a special case. Even if [Ma Qianzhu][y005]'s life secretary did something like this, he probably wouldn't be much better off."

"[Governor][y005] doesn't even have a life secretary. These people are so smart!" Yang Xinwu took a bite of Zhang Zhixiang's secret-recipe donkey meat. "He has Tang Tang and the Queen. What does he need a life secretary for? We can't compare!"

"[Chief Wen][y002] has one..."

"[Chief Wen][y002] doesn't care at all. To him, a life secretary is just an inflatable doll that can do housework and talk." Yang Xinwu sighed, somewhat envious of [Chief Wen][y002]'s almost cold and detached attitude towards women.
[y001]: /characters/y001 "Xiao Zishan"
[y002]: /characters/y002 "Wen Desi"
[y005]: /characters/y005 "Ma Qianzhu"