---
layout: post
title: "Chapter 189: Betrayal"
category: 6
path: 2013-10-19-6-18900.md
tag: [normal]
---

"I'm counting on you. Now I can rest easy."

Although the arrival of the Special Reconnaissance Team did not significantly change the current situation at the villa, his previous worry about the villa falling had completely vanished. With the combat power of the Special Reconnaissance Team, silently killing the leaders of the mob from hundreds of meters away would be enough to create a deterrent.

The Special Reconnaissance Team often used this effective long-range silenced sniper tactic when dealing with natives. Killing people silently from a distance had a deterrent effect sufficient to calm the most violent and make the timid flee.

"Have someone bring a map. We need to look at the specific arrangements," Qian Shuixie immediately entered combat mode. "I also need to personally survey the terrain."

"I have a detailed sand table model here for you to look at first. If you want to see any specific location, I'll have someone take you there."

"Good." Qian Shuixie had no particular fondness for Zhao Yigong's constant self-proclaimed status as a "descendant of the Song imperial family," but now that he was here, he found the man to be quite capable. And having seen the state of the villa on his way here, he felt that its development to this point was no easy feat. He couldn't help but see him in a new light.

The next morning was another ordinary summer day. The villa began its daily routine as usual. But most people noticed a subtle change in the environment.

The people in the villa, even those not in the inner circle, had been able to read a certain degree of worry on the faces of the Master and those around him these past few days. Moreover, the rumors outside were rampant, creating an atmosphere of an impending storm. Some had already sensed that something was wrong. The long-term and short-term laborers here had all settled their accounts and resigned in advance. Even those who had sold themselves into servitude, if they had family or relatives to turn to in the local area, had also asked for leave, claiming "something had come up" and they needed to go back and "check on things."

Most people had nowhere to go and could only live in a state of anxiety. Rumors were also rampant within the villa. The mobilization of able-bodied men for several days to dig trenches and build fences seemed to confirm that the rumors were not baseless. Although the "Sticky Pole Department" acted promptly, arresting and beating those who spread them, and quickly suppressed the rumors, they still circulated in secret.

Xihua was secretly pleased. It seemed the Phoenix Villa was on the verge of collapse.

However, this morning, the atmosphere had completely changed. The people closest to the Master, like Fenghua and Zhao Tong, whom she saw, still had their usual expressions, but there was a hint of joy in their eyes, especially Fenghua, whose lips couldn't suppress a smile.

The joys and sorrows of the superiors often affect their subordinates. Subsequently, the worried and uneasy expressions on the faces of the various levels of managers in the villa also gradually disappeared. Even the previously panicked masses of the villa felt a strange sense of calm.

Something must have happened last night! Xihua, being an extremely intelligent person, immediately guessed the reason behind it.

However, she did not know what it was, which meant the matter was extremely confidential. Even among the "inner circle" like her, only a few knew.

At this thought, a strong sense of unwillingness rose in her heart again. Although she had already decided to betray Zhao Yigong, the realization that she was no longer trusted still brought a strong sense of loss.

But what had happened that would suddenly make the villa's top brass feel so relieved?

With this curiosity, and also with the idea of gathering more useful information for Hao Yuan, she began to look for opportunities to inquire.

However, she knew the rules. Not asking about things one shouldn't ask was an "iron law" of the villa, especially for those who worked close to Zhao Yigong. There was no second chance for making that mistake. So she absolutely could not ask a single word. If she did, she would immediately be exposed.

Xihua just worked actively, carefully listening and watching every detail, hoping to discover something.

However, her duties were mainly in the Cihuitang. Apart from having to handle matters and making her routine nightly report to Zhao Yigong at the villa, her opportunities and time to set foot inside the villa were limited. It was difficult to find out anything.

After much consideration, she decided to take the initiative. Just as Jia Le secretly passed a message to her, asking her to attend a "meeting," she used this as an excuse to actively seek out Zhao Yigong to "report."

Zhao Yigong was a little excited after learning this news. "It seems you are already considered one of them."

"This servant also thinks so."

"The atmosphere outside has become more and more tense these past few days. There is no reason for them to summon you for no reason," Zhao Yigong said. "This meeting is probably to discuss their move!"

"Just go."

"If they ask how things are in the villa, how should this servant answer?"

"Just say that the villa is in a state of panic," Zhao Yigong said with a smug look. "Let them attack boldly!"

Xihua's heart sank. She knew that Zhao Yigong must have received strong reinforcements from Lingao. The strength of these reinforcements could be seen from Zhao Yigong's completely changed demeanor.

"Congratulations, Master. This is to let them come to their deaths."

"Hehe, you are so smart!" Zhao Yigong was overjoyed, completely unaware that he had fallen for the girl's probing. "Go and do a good job."

***

With this opportunity, Xihua immediately contacted Jia Le and asked her to arrange a meeting with Hao Yuan.

Perhaps because the matter was imminent, she saw Hao Yuan the very next day.

"...That's how it is." Xihua hurriedly recounted everything she had seen and heard. "Previously, the villa was constantly transferring valuables and documents to the Wanbi Bookstore in the city. Zhao Yigong and his group were living in fear every day. But yesterday, they suddenly all became full of life and vigor. It feels like strong reinforcements have arrived."

"Mmm." Hao Yuan nodded, his face as calm as water, as if this situation was not unexpected. "Transferring assets is just a trick of having multiple burrows. It should be expected." He stood up and said, "The cream of the crop of the people's wealth that Zhao Yigong has exploited in Jiangnan is probably all hidden in the city. He is indeed full of tricks, betting that we wouldn't dare to cause trouble in the city!"

His words were filled with regret.

"...However, as long as we can break his villa, we will have destroyed his nest. Even if he has money in his hands, he won't be able to stir up much trouble. The people of Jiangnan can finally breathe a sigh of relief and not be squeezed to death by him!"

"I just don't know what these strong reinforcements are," Xihua also felt some regret. "I will try to find out more."

"No, you don't need to find out anymore," Hao Yuan said decisively. "You are in a very dangerous situation now. The slightest misstep could lead to a total loss. You are trapped in the villa, and I can't... save you..." His voice became soft and tender at the end.

A warm current flowed through Xihua's heart. She nodded forcefully. "Mmm, I will be very careful..."

"No, you don't need to take any more risks. You have already done enough for us." Hao Yuan placed a hand on her shoulder, his expression firm, but his eyes were very gentle. "You must protect yourself well, do you understand?"

This action immediately made Xihua's cheeks flush red. It was a very bold and abrupt gesture, almost "flirtatious" by the social standards of the time. For a moment, she seemed to be completely infatuated.

Time seemed to stand still. Xihua felt her body go soft as mud and light as paper. She wanted to say something but didn't know how to begin. She just let out a soft "mmm" and her eyes closed involuntarily.

"You are in a dangerous situation now." Hao Yuan ignored the girl's amorous feelings, his smile still gentle and polite. "If there is any sign of trouble, you must run immediately. Don't hesitate."

"Okay." Xihua had recovered by now. Recalling her dazed state just now, her cheeks burned.

"If there is danger, you just need to find a way out of the villa and go directly into the city. As soon as you enter the Fengshan Gate, there is a Wang Po's teahouse in the outer city. Go in and find Wang Po, and say 'kill the Tartars on the fifteenth of the eighth month.' She will protect you. Then follow her arrangements. I will be waiting for you in a safe place."

Xihua's heart warmed. Compared to Master Zhao, Hao Yuan's arrangements were both proper and thoughtful, considering her in every aspect.

"After you go back, Zhao Yigong will surely ask you what you found out," Hao Yuan smiled slightly. "Just tell him that the day of the Zhongyuan Festival is when we will act."

"It's not actually the fifteenth of the seventh month, is it?"

"A good question." Hao Yuan nodded in approval. "Zhao Yigong will surely think the same as you." He lowered his voice. "Come, I will tell you some things that he cannot help but believe..."

***

"...Hao Yuan's plan is to launch a simultaneous attack by land and water," Xihua reported to Zhao Yigong, recounting the details Hao Yuan had told her.

Zhao Yigong listened carefully. When he heard that Hao Yuan's plan, besides hiring fighting societies and inciting the local commoners, also involved colluding with Zhang Guang to hire high monks to perform a grand "flaming mouth" ritual at the villa gate to curse the "gluttonous demon," he couldn't help but suck in a cold breath. This guy really knew his own business well!

However, the biggest killer move was yet to come: several hundred people who had lost their land or had family members die, or had sold their wives and children during this year's sericulture season, had been secretly gathered. They were just waiting for the villa's gate to be broken down to rush in. Those with grudges would seek revenge, and those with grievances would air them. It was said that Hao Yuan's side had already bought dozens of lives in advance. Whether it was the hired thugs who came for money, the believers who came to defend the faith and vanquish the demons, or the sericulturists filled with hatred, they would not be gentle when the time came.

Besides the land route, there was also a plan by water. Hao Yuan's group had already ordered a large number of large lotus lanterns from the major paper-craft shops in the city, as well as a "great dharma boat" that could float on water. These lantern boats were filled with large amounts of lamp oil and sulfur. When the time came, they would be lit and released from a few dozen zhang upstream of the villa's pier on the Fuchun River. These blazing lantern boats would crash directly into the pier. Not only would the pier and the boats be lost, but the boiler room located by the pier would also be destroyed.

Although this attack was not fatal, it would be a great blow to the villa's morale and would also have the effect of adding to the chaos.