---
layout: post
title: Section 54: Leaving Office
category: 6
path: 2013-6-6-6-05400.md
tag: [normal]
---

"You mean, we let the bandit become the prefect, and then expose him?" Wang Ding asked.

"That's right. Intercepting the bandit was a hassle in the first place. Now we'll let him go ahead, and after he takes office, we'll expose him," Li Yan said. "It's not too rare for bandits to kill officials, but it's very rare for them to impersonate officials. If Old Wu exposes him, he'll have made a great achievement right at the beginning of his term. The title of 'capable official' will be secure."

"The problem is that his achievement has no value," Wang Ding said. "We can't just promote him immediately. I think it would be better to have Old Wu use this to threaten him, to control Leizhou by holding the fake prefect hostage."

Jiang Shan shook his head. "The bandit can just run away. Why would he be controlled by you? You have to know that if this matter is exposed, it's a matter of losing his head. He can tell which is more important. Even if the other party agrees for a while, there are too many variables. It's not appropriate."

"I agree," Li Yan said. "Actually, you should think of it this way: once Old Wu exposes the fake prefect, won't the position of prefect be vacant?"

"Wu Mingjin acting as prefect? But Da'er is the Tongzhi of Leizhou!"

"Can't we have him die of a sudden illness?" Li Yan said faintly. "Who else can take the position now?"

"Whether it's the prefect or the Tongzhi, the court will always send a new official to take over. It's impossible to let Old Wu act as prefect forever."

"The appointment of a prefect has to go through the Ministry of Personnel. This place is far from the emperor. By the time the paperwork is done and the new prefect arrives, at least a year will have passed. As for the Tongzhi, Leizhou has always been a remote and harsh place, with prevalent epidemics. It's not certain that he won't get sick and die on the way... After a year and a half, the situation will be different from now."

"There's another problem," Wang Ding said. "What if that bandit no longer exists in this timeline?" He looked at everyone. "This is very likely to happen."

Li Yan said, "Whether this bandit exists or not, the prefect of Leizhou who takes office in 1632 will definitely be a fake."

Wu Mingjin looked at the courtyard of the inner hall, and a wave of emotion washed over him.

In the courtyard of the inner hall, the grass and trees were still the same under the autumn sun, but he would soon be leaving this place.

If he had received the order of transfer two or three years ago, he would probably have called on the gods and ancestors for their blessings, packed his luggage in a hurry, and galloped away with his family, like a bird escaping from a cage. For the past few years, at the end of each year, when he offered incense to the ancestral tablets, he had silently prayed that he could leave this troublesome place of Lingao as soon as possible. He didn't even want to be an official anymore; he only wanted to return to his hometown in Nanzhi safely.

However, now, he didn't feel happy at all. Instead, he felt a little melancholy.

In the past few years, he had been a figurehead in Lingao. At the beginning, there were some civil lawsuits to handle, but in the past year or so, he had been completely forgotten. Besides Wang Zhaomin, other subordinate officials in the county, such as Wu Ya and Sun Ruiwu, only came to visit him during festivals. From their appearance, they seemed to be doing very well under the Australians. They were all ruddy-faced and full of energy. He heard that Wu Ya had even brought his family to Lingao, with the intention of settling down here.

Compared to them, Wu Mingjin was lonely. He was unwilling to work for the Australians, so besides sitting in the county advisory bureau every month and talking with the local gentry, and presiding over the monthly examinations at the county school and offering sacrifices on time, he had almost nothing to do. The official documents were all handled by Advisor Wang. He spent most of his time sitting idly in this small world of the county yamen, either reading and teaching his children, or entertaining himself with poetry, tea, and wine, living a leisurely "immortal" life. Besides Advisor Wang, Senator Xiong would also visit him every three to five days to play chess and drink with him, and from time to time, he would give him some gifts and "allowances."

In the beginning, Prefect Wu was wary and disdainful of Senator Xiong's visits.

He knew that Xiong Buyou's actual position was the Australians' "county magistrate," and his "yamen" was right next to the county yamen. Needless to say, he was also responsible for monitoring him. On several occasions, Wu Mingjin was prepared to be "poisoned," especially when the court's army was approaching.

Now his attitude had almost completely softened. The Australians were mostly humorous and interesting people. Although their words were inevitably crude, in the past few years, they had suppressed bandits in Lingao, built water conservancy projects, provided relief to the people, encouraged industry and commerce, promoted agriculture and sericulture, and established schools... Lingao had changed by the day, and they had turned a poor and desolate border county into the most prosperous county in Qiongzhou.

As long as he was willing, he could go out for a walk at any time, and he could even go to the southern mountainous areas where he had never dared to go deep when he was a county magistrate. The changes in Lingao were obvious to all. He, Wu Mingjin, was not blind or deaf, and he was even more unwilling to speak against his conscience. The Australians were truly talented people who could benefit the world and govern the country well. He, and many other scholars, were far from being comparable to them.

It was ridiculous to say that when he was the county magistrate of Lingao, his performance evaluation in the first year was only "mediocre." On the contrary, after the Australians came, he had made several major political achievements and received an "outstanding" evaluation. Now that his term was up, his promotion to Tongpan of Leizhou was probably also the result of the Australians' activities. Wu Mingjin was not a fool. He generally knew that Leizhou was now also under the control of the Australians. The fact that he could get the post of Tongpan of Leizhou and leave immediately without waiting for his successor to take over the seal, with the county magistrate being temporarily filled by Wu Ya, was clearly the Australians' arrangement. As for the purpose, it was probably just for the convenience of "working with an acquaintance." As long as he continued to "govern by doing nothing" in Leizhou and continued to have an "outstanding" performance evaluation, it would probably not be a problem to be promoted after his term was up.

The butler came running over to report, "Master, everything is ready. Please give the order whether to depart."

"Has Advisor Wang gotten in the carriage?"

"Reporting to Master, he is already in the carriage."

Wu Mingjin looked around the courtyard again. Now he was about to leave this place. The current county yamen had been renovated by the Australians. It was much more beautiful and tidy than the dilapidated yamen he had taken over, which was overgrown with grass and infested with foxes and rats. In this courtyard, he and his family had sat around and eaten "Australian-style barbecue" in autumn and winter, and had shaved ice and plum soup on summer nights. He had also smoked cigars and drank Oolong tea here... All kinds of past events came to his mind, and he suddenly felt reluctant to leave.

"Let's go," he finally said the word, then flicked his robe and strode out.

Many people had already gathered at the entrance of the county yamen. Besides the subordinate officials of the county, the rest were mostly gentry from the advisory bureau, students from the county school, and some onlookers. The Australian representative was the one he was most familiar with, Xiong Buyou. Senator Xiong was all smiles, with a band of musicians and a few of his men.

In front of the screen wall was a band, playing a "decadent song" of the Australians. Wu Mingjin had heard it sung as a ditty, and it seemed to be called "When Will You Return?"

Although it was a decadent song, it was very appropriate at this time. Wu Mingjin stood on the steps of the main gate of the yamen and bowed to the crowd. He saw Scholar Liu among the gentry who were seeing him off, and all kinds of emotions welled up in his heart. His heart warmed, and his eyes became slightly moist.

Xiong Buyou came forward and shook his hand, and said a few words of compliment like "wishing you a speedy promotion." Then Liu Dalin was also helped up to offer a toast. Since he had received treatment at the Lingao General Hospital, and Liu San had trained several servants and maids as physical therapists, who gave him medicine, acupuncture, and massage every day, and carried out various rehabilitation exercises, Scholar Liu not only did not die early as in history, but he could also gradually walk with a cane. Unless it was a long journey, he no longer needed a wheelchair.

Wu Mingjin took the wine cup. Liu Dalin was the "leader" of the gentry and large households in Lingao. To be seen off with a toast from him was a great honor for a prefectural or county official. This was much more impressive than some officials with a bad reputation who could only hire a few people to make a show of it when they left office.

After drinking the wine offered by Master Liu, firecrackers went off. Two commoners came forward and took off one of his boots—this was the ceremony of taking off the boots. Then someone presented a vermilion-lacquered wooden plaque with the two large characters "Virtuous Governance" painted on it, and also presented a "parasol of ten thousand people." The ceremony of seeing off the retiring official was "completed."

Here, Director Xiong had already arranged for several two-wheeled and four-wheeled carriages to transport the family and luggage. The family had already boarded the carriages. Wu Mingjin boarded the Red Flag carriage. At this time, the band played the folk music version of "Auld Lang Syne." The crowd seeing him off bowed together. At this time, he heard someone crying in the crowd. Prefect Wu could no longer hold back. He wiped his tears with his sleeve, bowed repeatedly, and then got into the carriage. Accompanied by the band, the convoy slowly started and headed out of the city along the street in front of the county yamen.

Wu Mingjin's new post was just across the strait from Lingao, but as usual, he had to go to the provincial capital before taking up his post. Before Wu Mingjin boarded the regular ship to Guangzhou, the Foreign Intelligence Bureau's organization had already begun to operate.

It was not difficult for the Guangzhou station to arrange for Wu Mingjin to be the Tongpan of Leizhou. His performance evaluation and term of office were both suitable, and Leizhou was a remote and harsh place that few people were willing to go to. Although the prospects were good, officials from outside often could not adapt to the local conditions or contracted diseases and died. Officials often regarded it as a dreadful place. The Intelligence Bureau was more concerned about how to continue to effectively control Tongpan Wu in the new environment.

Advisor Wang had been "developed," but this old and cunning, profit-seeking advisor alone could not guarantee complete reliability. Therefore, Li Yan decided to form a team of loyal and reliable naturalized citizen staff around Wu Mingjin and others to ensure that they were completely in the hands of the Foreign Intelligence Bureau.

The military team was easy to handle, as they had a large pool to choose from. But there was a slight lack of a literary team. They had not been able to recruit many scholars in the first place, and even fewer could be confirmed as reliable. After careful consideration, Li Yan decided to send Xiao Zhanfeng, a former scholar from Xuwen County, to Wu Mingjin's side to act as a "supervisor" in the capacity of a literary advisor.