---
layout: post
title: "Section 376: Minor Senator Lin Ziqi"
category: 6
path: 2014-4-24-6-37600.md
tag: [normal]
---

As she began to struggle with a probability problem, she subconsciously raised her head to seek help—every time she raised her head and saw the classroom, she would feel a sense of loss.

This was the 17th century.

She looked around boredly. Everyone was taking an exam, but the content was different for each person. There were no classmates of her elementary school age in the classroom, only those who were called "little Senators." Their ages varied. The youngest was born a year before D-Day and had just turned six, having just been promoted from the learning institute's kindergarten. The oldest were her and Zhang Yunmi's group, not yet eighteen. Therefore, the textbooks used were also varied—the first class of the learning institute, specially established for the children of the Senators, adopted a multi-grade education system, and according to each person's ability and learning interests, a "teach according to aptitude" model was adopted. Therefore, her test paper was also unique. Zhang Yunmi, who was her age and her best friend, was currently gritting her teeth at a German test paper.

The "Principal Qian," an old woman who was the head teacher, sat behind the lectern. Her already graying hair was combed as neatly as Jiang Qing's, and she wore black-rimmed glasses. Several elementary school students were so scared of her that they didn't dare to breathe too loudly. As for why Lin Ziqi, a post-90s girl, knew who Jiang Qing was, it was all due to the influence of her father, a member of the Political Bureau.

Suddenly, she heard some noise and glanced out the window boredly. As she lamented that the window seat was indeed a suitable place for daydreaming, she also saw a group of boys from the selection group playing ball: rugby, no, in this world, it was called Australian-style.

Yes, this world. The Chongzhen era of the Ming Dynasty. She, a "post-90s girl who only lived in her own world," didn't know the specific year. She only knew that this year was 1634. Even when her father took her on the ship, she only knew that she was going to a strange place and would never come back. She had no awareness of the historic moment of transmigration until after she had transmigrated.

Transmigration, a name that was not at all unfamiliar to the post-90s generation, even had a romantic and happy color. What was transmigration? Transmigration meant that whether you were an ordinary person or a genius, as long as you transmigrated, women would become irresistible beauties, and men would become world-changing hegemons. At the very least, even farming could attract the attention of the emperor.

However, after personally experiencing transmigration, Ziqi learned that the ancient times were not as described in novels, with handsome men everywhere and beautiful women at every turn. The city was full of inns and shops, and you could become famous by plagiarizing a poem, and a small creative idea could earn you millions of taels of silver... This world was not only poor and backward, but also full of dangers: the counterattacks of the natives, the threat of various infectious diseases, the harsh environment... The biggest difficulty was the inability to adapt to the material life. During the difficult period of initial establishment, she almost broke down. She wanted to sleep on a Simmons mattress when she was tired, eat KFC when she was hungry, drink soda when she was thirsty, stay in a building when she was tired, play on the computer when she was bored, and turn on the air conditioner when it was hot. When she was in the mood, she would go to the pedestrian street to browse manga shops... But the reality was that, let alone Simmons, KFC, and soda, even the basic toilet was a squat toilet that she couldn't get used to. If she was outside of Bairen City, the concept of a toilet didn't even exist...

Fortunately, Lin Ziqi, who was used to a life of comfort, survived. Of course, she had to survive. Outside the camp was a dangerous place. In her eyes at the time, the so-called natives were no different from the savages in manga...

She lived in a simple dormitory with her father, eating seafood porridge every day. She was called to copy various documents, fill out forms for the natives, and was hastily pulled to "shooting training" before the Battle of Chengmai... After experiencing the Senate's successful "leapfrog development" one after another, she grew up day by day, from an elementary school student to a high school student.

Now, she had just passed her seventeenth birthday. In another year, she would be eighteen and officially become a "Senator" with voting rights.

She had no direct impression of what a Senator did. She only knew that her father and all the uncles and aunts who were called Senators were very busy. They worked from dawn to dusk every day. Even after returning home, they still had a lot of work to do. Every time she went home, she would often wake up to find the kerosene lamp in her father's room still lit.

What kind of life had she lived for the past six years? No television, no games, not even a single magazine to buy! Her mobile phone was a PHS, and even if she used a computer to watch a movie or go on a local area network that had nothing but forums, she had to be careful with her electricity quota. When she had her first period, she couldn't help but cry on her bed when she saw the set of feminine hygiene products given to her, which made her father very confused...

It wasn't that she hadn't complained about her father's arbitrary decisions, nor had she not "greeted" the eighteen generations of those leaders—her father secretly called them "livestock." But in the end, Lin Ziqi had survived. She had also seen her living conditions improve day by day. She had gotten used to some things that she couldn't overcome.

After all, this time and space still had many good things, such as fresh air, and the brilliant Milky Way at night—Lin Ziqi had never seen such a beautiful Milky Way in the other time and space. There were also the freshest vegetables and seafood. The most important thing was her father's status. A Senator, a "chief"!

The word "chief," in Lin Ziqi's world, had only existed in those old black-and-white movies. But now, those naturalized citizens and natives always used this word to address her father respectfully. In the other time and space, when had her father ever received such respect? Even her own mother, when she mentioned her father, always had a look of disdain, as if her father owed her five million. Of course, otherwise they wouldn't have divorced, and Lin Ziqi wouldn't have come to this world with her father who planned to "start over."

"In this new world, you will be a princess..." her father had said as he carried his luggage and lined up to get off the big ship.

Yes, a princess...

Her gaze once again fell on the boys on the playground outside the window. Indeed, the way they looked at her was a little, um, "different."

As soon as the Senate established a firm foothold in Lingao, it immediately founded Fangcaodi. The little Senators under the age of eighteen also came to this world that was almost completely isolated from the outside.

Although Fangcaodi was not comparable to the schools in that world, it was a rare and quiet place. And it had a very school-like feel. The learning institute where these little Senators were located was a state within a state: surrounded by high walls and heavily guarded. Except for the carefully selected students of the selection group and the naturalized citizen teachers who took care of their daily lives, no one could easily enter or leave, ensuring that they would not be easily disturbed. And all they had to do was to receive a good education and become new Senators.

Principal Zhang had told them that they were not "second-generation Senators" whose succession to the Senate was still uncertain, but minor Senators who officially occupied a seat on the Senate's roster. Therefore, they had to have the "awareness of becoming a Senator" from a young age.

Lin Ziqi didn't know what "the awareness of becoming a Senator" meant, but from her father and the uncles and aunts, she roughly knew that it was not a pleasant and enjoyable path. Just like her studies over the past six years, it was almost at full capacity. By the time she was fifteen, she had already finished the high school curriculum of the old time and space and started her university education.

Mathematics, physics, chemistry, Chinese, history, biology, foreign languages, physical education... all kinds of courses filled everyone's schedule. Except for the younger students in the lower grades, everyone had eight classes a day. After dinner, they had to do self-study in the evening, and the teacher would review today's knowledge points with them one by one.

*How terrible. I don't want to be a top student. Why do I have to learn so much?* Lin Ziqi was very troubled.

"Ten minutes left before the papers are collected. Hurry up, students," "Principal Qian" said.

Lin Ziqi quickly stopped her daydreaming, gave up on that problem, and began to check her test paper. The weekly test scores would affect her average score. If her score was too bad, she would be kept for make-up classes during the holidays—and the holidays here were already pitifully few.

The big clock on the clock tower of the main building of Fangcaodi Academy rang on time: 2:00 PM local time.

As soon as Principal Qian announced that time was up, the student on duty for the day collected the papers in the class in order and handed them in. Today's student on duty was Zhuo Tianmin's son, Zhuo Xiaomin. He was only six on D-Day and was now only a twelve-year-old boy. He had inherited his father's high nose and big eyes, as well as long eyelashes that were no less than a girl's. He wore the white fine linen summer uniform shirt of Fangcaodi, which made him look a bit pitiful and submissive...

After collecting all the papers, Principal Qian said, "You can go home after class. The school will be on holiday for two days starting tomorrow." She then tapped the table. "During the holidays, everyone should review often. After all, there is still the cultural festival. Time is precious for you..."

After a lengthy lecture, "Principal Qian" finally left. The atmosphere in the classroom immediately relaxed.

All the remaining time was free time. Although they could go home now—the younger children were already eagerly packing their schoolbags—the older students still seized this rare free time to chat and play. Outside the window, the rugby match of the naturalized citizen students was still going on. They, like Ziqi and the others, were boarding students. If there was any difference, it was that every student who could play on the playground of the learning institute was a top student who had gone through fierce competition.