---
layout: post
title: "Section 62: Occupying Humen"
category: 7
path: 2014-10-10-7-06200.md
tag: [normal]
---

The other officers whom he deemed unreliable were kept in the central army to "assist in military affairs," which was actually to monitor and control them. He sent his trusted aides to take over their troops. After all this was done, he sent someone to call Liu Zhipei over, wanting to figure out how he had let the Dargah soldiers rush out of their barracks and cause such a big commotion.

Unexpectedly, it was not Liu Zhipei who came, but one of his personal soldiers. Upon asking, he found out that his nephew had been killed last night.

"Commander Liu told the brothers to assemble, but after waiting for more than an hour, he didn't come. We went to check and found that he had already been killed!" the personal soldier said. "We were all at a loss. Later, someone sent a letter saying that the Dargah soldiers were rebelling in the central army and were besieging the general. So everyone rushed over."

"You wicked Ma Chengzu! So you had a conspiracy all along!" Liu Fengsheng mourned the tragic death of his nephew and thought about how dozens of people had rushed in at Ma Chengzu's call, which showed that he had been prepared for a long time. Today's events were truly treacherous!

On the river, a dozen or so large motorboats, belching black smoke, sped past the single-masted light sailboats in front of them, heading towards Humen, Shanghengdang Island, and other places. On board were the soldiers of the 1st Marine Expeditionary Force.

Although the various forts and camps in Humen had already hung blue flags symbolizing surrender, the soldiers were still very nervous. They crouched down as they had been trained to do, holding their rifles with fixed bayonets and percussion caps, ready to jump out and fight at any moment. The cannons on the single-masted sailboats on the river had also been set to the correct range, their muzzles pointed directly at the target, ready to fire at any time.

The landing occurred without any fighting. The forts originally had only a few guards, most of whom were old and weak. These people didn't even have the keys to the fort's powder magazine. Their daily job was to guard the forts and report any suspicious situations on the river in a timely manner. After the fleet approached, no orders were issued from Humen Fort, and no one came out to command the resistance. Seeing the large army of the 髡贼 approaching, they had already scattered before Liu Fengsheng's order to "stand by and do not resist" arrived. When the marines landed on the various forts, they were already empty.

Liu Fengsheng, in full armor, led all the officers to stand outside Humen Fort. Beside them were a dozen or so "elders" from Taipingxu. It was now late winter and early spring, and the wind blowing from the river was very cold. A few of the thinly clad "elders" were already stamping their feet and rubbing their hands to keep warm.

In contrast, Liu Fengsheng's side looked much neater. But compared to the completely numb "elders," the surrendering generals were more anxious. No matter what a person's sense of honor and shame was, betraying one's master for glory was always a disgraceful thing. Moreover, they were still worried about how the Australians would treat them after they surrendered, no matter how many guarantees He Xin had given.

Seeing the Australians in blue-gray uniforms continuously landing from the river, they became even more worried.

Just as they were feeling uneasy, an Australian soldier ran over quickly and asked, "Which one is Liu Fengsheng, the commander of Humen Fort?"

Liu Fengsheng quickly replied, "I am he."

"Elder Shi Zhiqi summons you and the generals and gentry of Humen Fort to meet him."

Liu Fengsheng quickly said, "Yes, I will go right away."

The person who landed at Humen was Shi Zhiqi, the commander of the 1st Marine Expeditionary Force. At this moment, he was in the yamen behind the Yanniangxie Fort, arranging the deployment and takeover of the marines. Xi Yazhou had requested him to expand in the local area as soon as possible after occupying Humen and firmly control this key to Guangzhou.

He had originally wanted to set up his command post directly in Humen Fort—the fort had many houses and was a ready-made barracks. But the staff from the Urban Work Department who had just come to meet him said that a fierce battle had taken place in Humen Fort, and the yamen was now a river of blood and had not yet been cleaned up. Shi Zhiqi had to give up this idea and settle down here for now.

He had already roughly learned about the situation of the commanders and garrisons in Humen Fort from the Urban Work Department. He was not interested in these old officers, but at the moment, he was short of manpower and was stretched thin everywhere. These old soldiers who had no scruples about killing their former comrades and had made a "pledge of allegiance" could still be used temporarily.

Liu Fengsheng and his men were led by guards into the courtyard of the fort's yamen. When they were about a zhang away from the eaves, they all knelt down. A woman's voice came from inside, "The chief has ordered that everyone does not need to kneel. Please ask General Liu to come in!"

Liu Fengsheng was stunned. He thought to himself, why do the 髡贼 bring women to war? He suddenly realized that his thought was "greatly disrespectful." They were not "thieves," nor even "Australians," but proper "chiefs." Thinking of this, he quickly got up, took a few steps forward, and announced his name, "Your humble general, Liu Fengsheng, pays his respects to the chief."

"There is no need for formalities. Come into the house."

Liu Fengsheng quickly walked into the house. He saw that the house had been cleaned up. In the center was a large table. Something was hanging on the wall, covered by a curtain. Two Australian personal soldiers stood on the left and right sides of the door, with pistols slung across their chests. The Australian chief was a man in his thirties. At first glance, he was dressed no differently from his personal soldiers. There was also a female soldier beside him. He did not dare to look too much and quickly lowered his head, holding his breath and waiting to be questioned.

"Are you Liu Fengsheng?" Shi Zhiqi looked at the middle-aged man in full armor who was standing respectfully before him. He had read Liu Fengsheng's file: he came from the ranks, joined the army at the age of sixteen, and rose to the rank of chiliarch through accumulated merits. He gained further military achievements in the She'an Rebellion and was given the title of "guerrilla." He then spent a few years bribing his way up before finally getting the position of commander of Humen Fort.

"Yes, I am."

Shi Zhiqi thought that it was really not easy for him. After more than twenty years of military life, he had both risked his life on the battlefield and bribed his way up. It was not easy for him to climb to this position. According to the file, he was in his thirties when he became a chiliarch and only then got married. He had only bought a house in Guangzhou in recent years. The file said that he was both greedy and stingy. No wonder the Urban Work Department didn't have to put in much effort to persuade him to surrender.

"I heard that a fierce battle took place in your yamen today?"

"Yes." Liu Fengsheng immediately recounted what had happened this morning: how he had prepared to summon the generals to discuss surrendering to the Senate, how Gao Xidian and Ma Chengzu had made trouble, and how a fierce battle had taken place in the central army yamen.

"...Gao Xidian and Ma Chengzu were arrogant and rebellious, trying to stop a chariot with a mantis's arm, and resisting the heavenly soldiers. Now these scoundrels have all been wiped out! Their heads have been displayed at the camp gate to show the might of the Great Song and the Senate..."

Shi Zhiqi nodded slightly. He knew about Ma Chengzu, and it was expected that he would resist so fiercely. He had no impression of who this Gao Xidian was. These people could still rise up and resist in a completely hopeless situation. The Ming Dynasty still had loyal ministers and righteous men.

However, he did not dislike Liu Fengsheng either. If the ground was full of loyal ministers and righteous men, the Senate would not be able to get by. In the final analysis, people are animals that conform to the general trend. As long as the Senate leads the general trend well, the majority will be those who know the times, and the world can be brought into the bag.

He nodded slightly and said, "Although they did not know the times, did not obey the king's transformation, and resisted stubbornly to the end, they were still loyal ministers of the Zhu Ming. There is no need to display their heads. Bury them with their bodies as soon as possible. Put up a sign so that their families can come and collect their bodies later."

Liu Fengsheng quickly said, "The chief is benevolent..."

"I now appoint you as the captain of the 1st Provisional Battalion of the Guangdong Corps of the National Army. You will now return to the camp and go through the handover procedures with the people I have sent. You can rest assured that our promises are all valid. You can take all your personal property with you. For what you can't take with you for the time being, I have instructed the receiving personnel to arrange for houses to be used as temporary warehouses for you to store your private property."

Liu Fengsheng quickly knelt down to thank him. Shi Zhiqi frowned and said, "My Senate does not practice the kneeling ceremony. You can dispense with this in the future. After the handover, you will lead your troops to Hong Kong Island for training. There will be specific arrangements for how to get there. You just need to restrain your subordinates and wait quietly!" He looked at Liu Fengsheng again, "I know that there are many bad habits and old rules in the official army. Now that you have just surrendered, I will not bother with you about them, but you must remember that you are absolutely not allowed to disturb the people. If there is any disturbance of the people, you will not be pardoned!"

Liu Fengsheng quickly said, "The troops under my command are all local natives and will never disturb the people."

Shi Zhiqi nodded, "I trust you. You must restrain your subordinates well and obey orders. You will have a great future. You may go."

He said a sentence, and Liu Fengsheng replied a sentence. He didn't know how big the position of battalion commander was, but he understood that he was going to Huangpu Island for training. Logically, as long as the troops were moved, there should be a departure fee. He was also hoping that the Australians would give him a generous "reward," but until Shi Zhiqi said, "You may go," it was not mentioned. He couldn't help but be disappointed in his heart: it was said that the Australians were generous, but they were so stingy.

However, he did not dare to mention it, nor did he dare to show his disappointment. He respectfully withdrew. Then Shi Zhiqi met with the officers of Humen Fort above the rank of lieutenant in batches and said some comforting words.

The last people he met were the liaison officer and the gentry of Taipingxu. For them, the Australians were already old acquaintances. Every year, Taipingxu had to pay a "reasonable burden" to the Australians, so the arrival of the Australians this time did not cause panic. After saying a few polite words, Shi Zhiqi sent the gentry away and left the liaison officer behind to ask about the food problem of the garrison.

According to the plan, the marines would leave a company here to guard Humen Fort.

"Don't worry, chief. The town has already prepared for it," the liaison officer said respectfully. "There are thirty shi of grain in the warehouse right now, ready to be used at any time."

"This is a key point of the Pearl River. The Joint Logistics Headquarters will set up a supply station here. You should put in more effort." Shi Zhiqi saw the liaison officer's brow furrowed and smiled, "What? Are you afraid that we will eat you poor?"

"I dare not, I dare not," the liaison officer was so scared that his soul flew away. He immediately knelt on the ground and kowtowed repeatedly.