---
layout: post
title: "Section 295: The Supply Chain"
category: 6
path: 2014-2-2-6-29500.md
tag: [normal]
---

It was as if a bomb had gone off in the conference room. The audience, initially silent, quickly erupted into a chaotic discussion.

"Comrade Wu Mu," someone asked, "could such a serious case be carried out by naturalized citizens alone? Could there be a Senator involved?"

"No Senators are involved in this matter. In fact, it's impossible," Wu Mu answered decisively. "All the criminals have been arrested." His gaze swept across the people in the room. "I think it is highly, highly, highly inappropriate to suspect our comrades on this issue."

"Delete this conversation from the meeting minutes," Jiang Shan said, raising his eyelids. "Instead of pointlessly suspecting who did it, we should be considering how to prevent it. I believe the comrades of the Political Security General Bureau have specific measures. Now, let's return to the matter of Hale."

"One more point must be made. Everyone should be aware that, after review by the Ministry of Science and Technology, some of our self-produced instruments have been listed on the Foreign Trade Committee's export catalog. For example, balances, microscopes, gauges, sextants, quadrants, levels, slide rules, vernier calipers, vacuum pumps, etc. This is because the prototypes for most of these instruments have already appeared in Europe. Because the prices are set very high, and our products all use the metric system, sales have not been large, and all purchasing customers are on record. However, no one can say for sure whether these instruments might end up in Hale's hands after changing hands several times."

"If they barely sell, why export them at all? What on earth is the Ministry of Colonization and Trade thinking?!"

"I think that Sikaide fellow has a problem—a very serious tendency to act alone!"

"Before Operation Engine, he repeatedly proposed appeasing the Zheng clique and opposed military action. His motives are suspicious!"

"This appeasement tendency must be thoroughly investigated! I suggest launching a loyalty investigation into him!"

"Loyalty investigation my ass! Just investigate his economic problems directly."

The discussion grew even more clamorous. Wu Mu saw the Navy Chief of Staff, Li Di, gesticulating wildly to the attendees on either side of him, insisting that the Ministry of Colonization and Trade, and even the entire Executive Committee, must be held accountable for their "treasonous crimes."

"Unless a decision is made to implement a targeted trade embargo, it's very difficult to control resale trade," Jiang Shan spoke only when the decibel level in the room had dropped slightly. "The direct trade the Southeast Asia Company conducts with the Philippines mostly involves traditional goods. We ship raw silk, silk fabrics, porcelain, cane sugar, fruits, and tea to Manila. Of course, our specialties like salt, distilled spirits, and glass products are also included. These goods are largely the same as those traditionally transported and sold by Chinese merchants in the Philippines, and to a considerable extent, we have squeezed their market share. They have had to settle for second best, turning to transporting bulky goods like copper and iron hardware. This coincided with Hale's arrival in Manila, after which the Spanish began purchasing large quantities of metal materials, even using shiny silver to buy iron pots and copper coins, and of course, the crucial mercury."

"Of course, the Philippine authorities don't want only one supplier. So the Portuguese have been shipping large amounts of Indian iron from Goa, as well as tin from Malacca and copper from Burma. The competition from the Portuguese, coupled with the low profits from selling bulky copper and iron goods, has led Fujianese and Cantonese merchants to flock to Hong Kong, Sanya, Kaohsiung, and all the trading ports under our control. What do they do there? Naturally, they buy large quantities of our products to ship to Manila for sale. Putting aside whether it's even possible, it would have been completely unreasonable to implement a trade embargo before we could fully confirm Hale's existence. After all, the Philippine trade is our main channel for obtaining many important goods and a large amount of hard currency in precious metals. The Navy comrades often express the need for large quantities of Manila hemp for making sails, rigging, and anchor cables."

Li Di looked a little embarrassed. Of course, it didn't take long for him to start enthusiastically advocating for the "Great White Fleet to storm Manila Bay, kill all the white skins, and plunder their resources."

"Let's look at Rando's report. He obtained intelligence from the Manila port authorities indicating that the Spanish colonial authorities are deliberately guiding Chinese merchants to transport and sell certain 'Australian goods' that are in special demand. For example, in the past two months, they have imported 263 boxes of soap."

"Comrade Rando's influence is not small," someone joked. "He's actually gotten the non-bathing white skins to buy soap."

"The Spanish couldn't use that much soap even if they bathed every day. Comrades from the mechanical industry department have pointed out that concentrated soap water can be used as a coolant and lubricant for industrial drill bits and various lathe tools and punch presses. Also, around the same time, Manila imported over 600 boxes of Australian matches. I'm afraid it's not just for lighting cigars. All you comrades now hold positions in the military and powerful agencies, and more or less have some background in military industry, so you should know that to Hale, those aren't matches, but red phosphorus and potassium chlorate. The quantity may not be huge, but it's at least enough for him to save a considerable amount of precious mercury fulminate in his detonators and primers."

"What a clever bastard!"

"Why are we exporting soap? Are we so well-off with our own soap that we can supply it freely?"

"Of course not. Our industrial sector mainly uses soapberry powder for similar applications. The effect is similar, and it's less corrosive. In comparison, exporting soap has a high added value, which helps us import more goods from the Philippines."

"And that's not all. The latest intelligence is that the Manila authorities are very interested in our various grain products, particularly favoring the star product of the Tianchu Food Company's Jeju branch: dried potato vermicelli. They have already purchased over a ton."

"To improve their food? Or has that Japanese fellow come up with some other strange idea?"

"If they wanted to improve their food, they could buy the Lingao rice noodles produced by the Tianchu Lingao branch, which are both cheap and good. But the Japanese fellow is clearly not stupid; those are mixed with sweet potato powder and have too high a fiber content. In contrast, the Jeju potato vermicelli, apart from a small amount of alum added as an additive, is almost pure starch. According to our previous intelligence, Hale is trial-producing nitro-starch explosives and has already experimentally produced a small amount of finished product. If he can obtain a stable source of starch without having to painstakingly grow potatoes and corn and extract the starch himself, it will undoubtedly be another step forward for him on the road to mass-producing high explosives."

A wave of gasps, curses, and complaints erupted in the conference room. "I don't understand," said Dongmen Chuiyu, representing the General Staff. "The three acids and two bases—to make explosives and mercury fulminate, you need at least two of them. Where can Hale get them? Did he order them from Comrade [Ji Tui Si][y044]?"

"News from the Portuguese merchants in Macau: someone placed an order at a foundry in Goa for a large number of strangely shaped lead pipes, lead plates, and lead pots. After the order was completed, they were all sent to Manila. The inference is that Hale used these things to assemble a small lead chamber for producing sulfuric acid. It's not impossible that Hale has also converted the wine bottles and glass bowls we sold him into chemical laboratory equipment. The raw material is likely sulfur produced in the Taipei area. Recently, communication between Manila and the garrisons in Tamsui and Keelung in northern Taiwan has been quite frequent, with an average of one ship per month sailing to the two locations to transport supplies and bring back goods. This number is too high; in previous years, it was only one or two ships per year. The intelligence shows a noteworthy development: the Spanish on the island of Taiwan have recently changed their traditional policy. They no longer use sulfur as payment in kind to the Chinese laborers who build fortifications for them, instead paying them with tobacco and spices. This may have been at the behest of the Governor of the Philippines. All the sulfur has undoubtedly been shipped to Manila. In addition, they are reinforcing the fortress in Tamsui, sending new artillery and companies. It is very clear that the Spanish will not hesitate to use force to secure the sulfur supply from Taiwan."

"As for nitric acid, it should be produced using the saltpeter method. The Spanish are shipping Indian saltpeter from Goa by the boatload. In return, the Governor of the Philippines, Juan de Salamanca, has even withdrawn his petition to ban Portuguese trade in Manila. However," Jiang Shan continued, "Comrade Rando has managed to create some obstacles for the Spanish. He provoked a duel in the European manner and killed the primary Spanish contractor responsible for procuring Indian goods for the Philippine authorities. Now, the import volume of saltpeter in Manila is showing a downward trend."

"Sounds pretty impressive. Why doesn't he just take out Hale while he's at it?"

"I am skeptical that he can mass-produce nitric acid," said Xu Yingjie. "Both mercury fulminate and nitro-starch require concentrated nitric acid, and the process for making concentrated nitric acid is complex. You can't make it with just saltpeter and concentrated sulfuric acid."

Even the chemical industry in Lingao had gone to great lengths to produce 97% concentrated nitric acid. The principle of nitric acid concentration is simple, but the process to achieve it is quite complex.

"Then where did he get his mercury fulminate? The sample Rando brought back was analyzed by you, and the conclusion report was also issued by your chemical industry department."

"First, mercury fulminate does not require concentrated nitric acid; it requires nitric acid of a relatively high purity. These are two different things. The key is that the nitric acid produced by heating saltpeter with sulfuric acid contains many impurities. I am very interested in what method he uses to remove these impurities and increase the purity. What is certain is that he must be taking a huge risk when using this nitric acid to make mercury fulminate or nitro-starch. It is very surprising to me that he hasn't been blown up yet..."

"I'm afraid it's not him who's getting blown up."

"If you're not afraid of people dying and not afraid of spending money, producing a small amount should be possible, but a large quantity is definitely not. As for nitro-starch, I think he could also produce it under the same premise."

"In short," Dongmen Chuiyu summarized, "the munitions industry Hale is running in Manila is actually heavily dependent on external supplies of raw materials, as well as the instruments, equipment, and upstream products he gets from us. Without these, he can't operate."

"No matter how much of a genius Hale is, he's still just one person. To build a self-sufficient,配套 (pèitào - supporting/matching) industrial system from scratch is completely out of the question."
[y044]: /characters/y044 "Ji Tui Si"