---
layout: post
title: "Section 75: Dong Mingdang"
category: 7
path: 2014-10-23-7-07500.md
tag: [normal]
---

"It's not necessarily that he can't be used by me," Lin Zunxiu said. "Now that the court is in trouble, if he steps forward, the court will naturally give him a future."

Liang Cunhou nodded and didn't say anything more. He seemed to be thinking about something. Lin Zunxiu waited respectfully for him to speak. On the surface, the Lin family and the Liang family were just a relationship between a merchant and a "big threshold" customer. In secret, they were deeply connected. The big financial backer behind the restaurant opened by the Lin family was the Liang family. It was what they called "no name of master and servant, but the reality of master and servant."

After a long time, Liang Cunhou finally said, "Let's discuss this matter again. You should try to win him over for now. Isn't he on good terms with the 髡贼? You can use him to find out more about the 髡贼."

"I understand."

"From now on, you will do business and live as you did in the past. If there is anything, I will send someone to find you. If you want to see me, go to the Fangchun Courtyard and find Yue Wan to pass a message. I will make arrangements," Young Master Liang said. "I'm going to live in seclusion for a while."

"Is Miss Yue Wan reliable?" Lin Zunxiu was a little worried.

Liang Cunhou said, "Her whole family is in my hands." Just as he was speaking, a figure flashed across the wall. Lin Zunxiu, who already had a guilty conscience, couldn't help but shout, "Who is it?"

"Your servant, Suiyu..."

Following the voice, a tall maid came in, holding a green jade plate with all kinds of fruits on it.

Liang Cunhou said, "Don't worry. The people who have defected to me can only serve in the outer courtyard. The ones used in the inner courtyard are all old servants who have received grace for several generations. The ones who can enter here are all loyal servants who can be entrusted with life and death. No words from the outside can enter, and no words from the inside can go out."

As soon as his voice fell, Suiyu knelt down and kowtowed, "Thank you, Young Master."

Liang Cunhou gave a slight signal, and the maid withdrew. Lin Zunxiu praised, "Brother Liang is indeed good at managing his household..." After saying that, he felt that these words were not very appropriate. After all, managing a household was a woman's business. To use it to praise a stay-at-home juren master was a bit of a mockery.

Liang Cunhou didn't mind and said lightly, "Family and country, family and country are actually one. As the saying goes, if you don't sweep a room, how can you sweep the world? If you can't even manage your own family, how can you serve the court and serve the country? I use military law to manage my household here. There are only two words for managing subordinates: one is strict, no matter if you are a newcomer or an old servant, whether you have face or not, a favorite or not. If you make a mistake, you will be punished by the family law; the second is benevolent, if you work in my mansion, your monthly salary and rations are two or three times higher than those of the servants outside. Everyone's family is well-off, the old are cared for, and the young are educated. If the servants are sick, I will find a doctor for them. If they pass away, they will be given a coffin and a burial plot. If you manage your household like this, you don't have to worry that people will not be convinced and willing to die for you."

Lin Zunxiu said with half flattery and half admiration, "Young Master has great talent."

Liang Cunhou smiled slightly, "You may go."

After seeing off Lin Zunxiu, his personal book boy came over and whispered a few words in his ear. Liang Cunhou nodded and said, "It is not appropriate for me to come forward in this matter. You ask Master Mai to talk to him."

The Guangzhou Prefectural Yamen—now the Guangzhou Special City Municipal Government—was brightly lit, and the staff of the municipal government were working hard. Liu Xiang's office was even hung with a gasoline lamp brought from the old time and space, which illuminated the entire room brightly.

The large rosewood table used as a desk was piled with documents. Liu Xiang had been so busy these few days that he was running around like a headless chicken, arranging reception matters, arranging various tasks, cleaning up and receiving assets and documents, and there were endless documents to approve and endless people to see. He woke up at the fifth watch and went to bed in the middle of the night every day, and his face had become a circle smaller.

He heard the second watch being struck on the watchtower outside—at present, there was no new timekeeping system in Guangzhou, and the system of morning bells and evening drums, firing cannons at noon, and striking the watch at night was still used. At the same time, a strict curfew was promulgated to prevent people from causing destruction under the cover of night. Street lights and big clocks, these two necessities of modern cities, did not exist in Guangzhou—Liu Xiang put down his red and blue pencils and got up to move his body. He had just finished reading Lin Baiguang's "Guangzhou Public Security Rectification Implementation Plan."

As the former head of the Guangzhou Urban Work Department, Lin Baiguang knew a lot about the basic situation of Guangzhou. Therefore, after entering the city this time, he was appointed as the director of the Guangzhou Comprehensive Governance Office, a department that managed almost everything from city appearance and sanitation to public security.

In this report and the thick appendix that came with it, Liu Xiang saw many problems listed as "in urgent need of solution"—it was simply all-encompassing. These were all matters that the citizens reacted very strongly to and were related to their vital interests. Among them were transportation, sanitation, and public security. The big city diseases of the 21st century could all be seen in the Guangzhou of the 17th century. And the original government agencies of Guangzhou's one prefecture and two counties were very rough in their management of the city, and it could even be said that they were laissez-faire. Many problems had persisted for decades or even hundreds of years.

"It's really not easy to be a mayor," Liu Xiang patted his dizzy head. He decided to meet with Lin Baiguang tomorrow to discuss first selecting a few livelihood issues that were relatively simple to deal with but could achieve great sensation and solve them in one go. On the one hand, it would show the work efficiency of the new municipal government, and on the other hand, it would also give the citizens of Guangzhou an impression of a "new dynasty and new atmosphere."

Guo Xi'er walked in, "Chief, the midnight snack is ready. Would you like to have it now?"

"Bring it up," Liu Xiang also felt that his stomach was empty. "I'll eat and then read the documents for a while, and then it's time to rest."

As he was eating the white porridge brought by Guo Xi'er, he suddenly thought of something, "Is that Dong Mingdang asleep? If not, let her come and see me."

He had been working like a spinning top these few days and had no time to see her at all. Today, he finished work a little earlier, so he remembered this matter.

To be honest, he didn't care much about the "hidden Ming officials" that Dong Mingdang wanted to expose. Although after counting, there were indeed a few provincial-level officials whose whereabouts were unknown, Liu Xiang was not too concerned about whether they could be caught—first, they were not of much use anymore, and second, he believed that with the level of the Senate's violent organs, as long as they were still in the city, they would be found out sooner or later. The subsequent household registration check would be enough to make them show their true colors. But this little girl tried every means to see him, which made him a little curious.

At this moment, he was scrutinizing Dong Mingdang, who was brought before him. He saw her come in gracefully, first kowtow to him, then stand up in front of him. Although her eyes were slightly lowered, she did not have the shy feeling of a little girl of this time and space who would lower her head almost ninety degrees when she saw a strange man. She was not in mourning. Although the clothes on her body were of a plain color, they were also very exquisite and beautiful, and her hair was neatly combed. She didn't look like she had lost her father at all.

Liu Xiang was surprised in his heart and asked, "Are you Dong Mingdang?"

"I am," her voice was clear and pleasant, and her answer was crisp and neat. This gave Liu Xiang a little good impression. He looked at her carefully. Dong Mingdang was not tall, but her figure was very well-proportioned. She had a clear melon-seed face, without any makeup, and she had six or seven points of beauty.

"I heard that you want to expose the whereabouts of the officials in the city," Liu Xiang asked slowly. "Now that you have seen me, you can tell me everything."

Dong Mingdang said, "Actually, I don't know the whereabouts of any hidden officials."

Liu Xiang was stunned, and Guo Xi'er even showed a look of disbelief—no one had ever dared to deceive the chief so blatantly. The fate of many people who had deceived the chief was not death, but being slowly tortured to death in a mine that was more terrible than death. This girl is so bold! She suddenly felt a sour and bloated feeling in her lower abdomen, and she felt a little unable to hold her urine: she deeply regretted her meddling in reporting for this girl!

Although Guo Xi'er had been a student at Fangcaodi for several years and had been trained in the maid training class for several months, she couldn't help but kneel down with a plop, "I deserve to die!"

"Get up! It's none of your business!" Liu Xiang shouted, and then said to Dong Mingdang, "Since you don't know, why did you say so? This is a military matter, and it's not a joke!"

"If I didn't say that I had important military matters, how could Your Excellency see a little girl like me?" Dong Mingdang said with her head bowed and respectfully.

Liu Xiang nodded, "You have already seen me. If you have anything important to say, just say it. As for your father's funeral, you don't have to worry. We will make proper arrangements. As for you and your mother, you don't have to worry either."

"Thank you for your kindness, Your Excellency. I did not ask to see Your Excellency for this matter, but to serve the Great Song," Dong Mingdang said respectfully.

Liu Xiang hesitated for a moment. He wanted to ask her to "say it again," but then he thought that it was unnecessary. Speaking of which, he had seen many men and women who had taken the initiative to join the Senate over the years, but this was the first time he had encountered a situation like Dong Mingdang's.

"Miss Dong, you have a national hatred and a family feud with our Great Song Senate. Now you are offering to serve us. How can we believe you?"

Dong Mingdang nodded, "Your Excellency is right. It is not in line with reason or sentiment. Even if it is true, you probably wouldn't dare to use such a heartless person. But Old Master Dong is not my father."

It turned out that Dong Mingdang was a "stepdaughter." Her family was originally a small landlord in a certain county in Shandong. When Old Master Dong was a county magistrate in Henan, he coveted her mother's beauty and colluded with bandits to kill her father's entire family. He snatched her mother away as a concubine. She was young at that time and was a girl. At Concubine Jiang's earnest plea, she was allowed to be brought along and was considered Old Master Dong's adopted daughter.

Liu Xiang was a little incredulous. Her life story was too bizarre. He couldn't help but ponder. Dong Mingdang said, "I know that Your Excellency doesn't believe it. My mother's words probably don't count either. But most of the Dong family's servants are still here. His long-term follower, Dong De, who helped the tyrant do evil, is still alive. You can send someone to interrogate him and ask him if what I said is false."

Liu Xiang said, "Regardless of whether what you said is true or false, to serve the Senate, you must go through the procedures. It is not something I can decide with one word." He thought for a moment, "I am not being perfunctory with you. My Senate acts differently from the Great Ming. Everything has rules and regulations, and it is not for one person to say. If you really want to join the Great Song, in a few days, my Senate will recruit talented people in Guangzhou, regardless of gender. As long as you pass the review, you will be a naturalized citizen."