---
layout: post
title: "Section 375: Special Mission"
category: 6
path: 2014-4-23-6-37500.md
tag: [normal]
---

Huang Xiong nodded and said, "I know! She's pregnant now. After the baby is born, I'll spank her bare bottom a few times, and she'll naturally learn her lesson."

Huang Ande said no more. He felt that his cousin was still a reasonable man. He had a vague feeling that the chiefs had eyes and ears in the army, but he never dared to say this to anyone.

At this point, Wang Qisuo had started to make a scene. "What are you two brothers whispering about? Come and drink!"

The group continued to drink and play finger-guessing games until nine o'clock in the evening. If they didn't have to work the next day, and no one dared to go back too late, this drinking session would probably have lasted until midnight.

Everyone was half-drunk. Huang Ande saw that Huang Xiong was already drunk, and with a pregnant woman by his side, he was afraid that something might happen. So he went to the street and hailed two rickshaws to send them back separately. He also wanted to call a rickshaw for Zhu Si and his wife, but they said they didn't need it and could go back on their own.

Some of the others went back on their own, while others were too drunk and simply slept on the floor at Huang Ande's house.

Seeing that Wang Qisuo was also drunk, leaning against the wall and slowly walking out, he quickly asked, "Are you alright, Brother Wang? If you're drunk, you can rest here for the night."

"It's nothing." Wang Qisuo's tongue was a little thick, but he seemed to be sober. "I have to go to rehearsal tomorrow... I won't be able to get into the city in time if I stay here overnight. Besides, the chiefs are very particular about cleanliness. I have to go back and wash up and change my clothes."

"Can you go back on your own?"

"It's fine. The last carriage hasn't left yet."

Huang Ande was not at ease, so he personally escorted him to the public carriage station and saw him off. He only went back after watching the carriage leave the station.

Wang Qisuo got off the carriage outside the garrison barracks. He stumbled into the dormitory. Because he had to participate in the rehearsal, he had a barracks pass, so he could enter and exit the barracks at any time and did not have to abide by the barracks' time management.

The lights-out signal had already been blown. The barracks were dark except for the duty room and the streetlights. Wang Qisuo fumbled to the dormitory door and pushed it open.

He lived in the NCO dormitory, which had four bunk beds. At this moment, the beds were all empty—recently, because of the cultural festival, a large number of garrison soldiers had been dispatched to various posts. Except for the mobile riot police company, the manpower was particularly tight, and almost everyone was out on duty. He was the only one living in the entire dormitory.

Wang Qisuo returned to the dormitory and did not light the gas lamp—the lights-out signal had already been blown. It would be too conspicuous to light a lamp now. He slowly took off his clothes and climbed into his bunk, but he did not immediately start snoring. Although he was boisterous when drinking and spared no effort in urging others to drink, he had not actually drunk much and was now wide awake.

"So this is the special mission!" he thought to himself. Combined with what he had heard from Huang Yang at the dinner table today, he remembered that a few days ago, the company commander had said that there was a special mission recently. The guard company was short of manpower and needed to transfer elite personnel from various companies to temporarily strengthen it. He had asked him to recommend specific candidates.

Wang Qisuo estimated that this special mission could not be a simple security patrol for the cultural festival. The guard company did not do such things. They were responsible for the direct security of the Senators and important naturalized citizen cadres.

If it was just that the Senators were going to the cultural festival, the existing strength of the guard company would be sufficient—accompanying and protecting the Senators on their outings was their regular task, and there was no need to transfer troops from other companies to strengthen it. In that case, this special mission could only be to protect the Senators' children at the cultural festival.

"Young chiefs, interesting." Wang Qisuo silently stared at the whitewashed ceiling, remembering a few times when he had been on duty outside the Senators' dormitory area. He had also seen personal secretaries taking their children out, but these children were all very young, the oldest being only three or four years old.

The "young chiefs" Huang Yang had mentioned were obviously not these young children born to the personal secretaries. They should be the "little Senators" who had come here with the Senators on the big iron ship. He had heard from the soldiers in his company that there were indeed seven or eight such little Senators studying at Fangcaodi.

The next morning, according to the mission order, he should have gone on duty in the new administrative district of the county town, but the company commander called him over.

"Qisuo, who does your platoon plan to recommend to the guard company? I'm about to submit the list."

Wang Qisuo didn't even think about it. "I'll go."

"You?" The company commander hesitated. "Aren't you also participating in the performance..."

"The performance is only on the first day. I can be on duty on the other days," Wang Qisuo said crisply. "The platoon is already on overloaded duty, and we're short of manpower... Anyway, it's only for two days. I'll just fill in."

"Alright then. I'll report it."

After his first date with Lian Nishang, Zhuo Yifan discussed it with Wan Lifeng, Abbess Miejing, and the others. They felt that they could use the opportunity of the 髡's cultural festival to attack the true 髡. As for whether to kill or capture them alive, it would depend on the situation. Wan Lifeng suggested that they could try to use Lian Nishang to sneak into the gymnasium.

"I'm afraid it won't be easy to persuade her," Zhuo Yifan said with some regret. "This woman is already deeply bewitched. It will take time to persuade her to abandon the darkness and turn to the light."

"We may not need to persuade this girl," Wan Lifeng said. "We just need to find a reason to trick her into believing us."

Sha Guangtian also said, "Even if we can't trick her, it won't be difficult for us to subdue her and force her to lead the way. Since she is a 'public servant' of the 髡, it will be convenient for her to move around."

Zhuo Yifan frowned slightly, but seeing that everyone agreed, he couldn't object and nodded. He then said, "I see that it's difficult for ordinary people to get close to the true 髡, they are all fake 髡. We need a few people to disguise themselves as true 髡 so that we can act when the time comes."

Wan Lifeng said, "That's not a problem. It's just shaving our heads and changing our clothes. A true man can bend and stretch. To fight the 髡, we have no problem with that!"

Zhuo Yifan said, "This matter still needs Abbess Miejing's approval..."

From what he had seen in the gymnasium today, the true 髡's guards were more vigilant towards men and quite lax towards fake 髡 women. If the Hengshan disciples disguised themselves as fake 髡 female students to get close to the true 髡, the chances of success would be great.

Abbess Miejing naturally agreed and even specially recommended her favorite disciple, Zhou Zhongjun, for this task.

"It's just that the attire of the true 髡 female students is somewhat indecent..." Zhuo Yifan said cautiously. "But this is for the sake of the Great Ming's rivers and mountains, and for the peace of the world."

Abbess Miejing's expression was uncertain for a long time before she said, "So be it. It's all for the sake of the common people."

"Thank you, Abbess, for your profound understanding of righteousness."

"It's just that this matter is of great importance, and Zhongjun is a bit young. I think it would be better to let Wan'er do it—she is older and more stable."

"Alright." Zhuo Yifan secretly found it amusing. He thought to himself, *I wonder what you would think if you saw Zhou Zhongjun's appearance?* Anyway, as long as she nodded, it was fine. He would have her assist when the time came and not let her see. When the chaotic battle started, it was uncertain how many would be able to escape. No one would probably care about indecency.

Zhuo Yifan also selected the four youngest disciples from the Hengshan Sect in the inn and had them change into the attire of fake 髡. It was not uncommon for local native women to adopt Australian attire without being purified. Moreover, Zhuo Yifan and the others had already exchanged a large amount of circulation coupons and could easily buy anything.

They didn't know much about how to dress in Australian style. For this reason, Zhuo Yifan specially sent someone to Nanbao to ask Zhou Zhongjun to take her senior and junior sisters to East Gate Market to buy new clothes.

As for Wan Lifeng and the others, they also prepared to shave their heads and change their clothes at the right time, to blend into the crowd and wait for an opportunity.

As for Zhuo Yifan himself, the cultural festival was just around the corner. He was anxious to finalize the final action plan with Seventh Master, so he sent a letter with a secret code to Sima Qiudao's mailbox, asking him to contact Seventh Master as soon as possible.

The weather today was a bit bad, and Lin Ziqi's mood was also low. On her desk was a neat test paper that still smelled of ink. It was a pop quiz in math, as boring as ever.

The desk was as large as a small office desk, made according to ergonomic principles, with a suitable height and a tilted surface. It was also equipped with a desktop bookshelf, a small storage cabinet, and a small drawer for stationery.

This "Holy Ship" brand desk and chair, specially supplied by the wood processing factory for the learning institute, was not only made of exquisite materials—high-quality hardwood, either rosewood or pearwood—but the workmanship was also extremely exquisite. It was said that the pig's blood lacquer and fine linen cloth had been applied seven or eight times, so bright that it could reflect a person's shadow, and so hard that even a pencil knife would not leave a mark. Lin Ziqi was not so bored. This was what her best friend, Zhang Yunmi, had told her. She was not surprised by this; she was already used to it.

The classroom of this learning institute exuded an indescribable luxury everywhere. This luxury was difficult to describe in words. For example, the ridiculously large hardwood desks, the teak floors; and then, for example, the desk lamp on each desk, the ceiling fan, the screen hanging above the blackboard, and the projector hanging at the back of the classroom... Nowadays, even the offices of the Executive Committee and the Senate were not so well-equipped.

The weather was bad, and the pale light from the skylight on the roof fell into the light well in the middle of the classroom, casting a soft light on the dozen or so desks around it. The classroom was cleverly designed to ensure sufficient light without being dazzling, so that the people inside could not see the writing on the blackboard clearly.

Lin Ziqi's pencil wrote the answers on the test paper at a leisurely pace. The pencils brought from another time and space had already been used up, even with extensions. The ones she was using now were special products from the Taibai Stationery Factory. The quality was really not to be complimented, and it could only be said that they were barely usable.

The test was very difficult, to the point of being abnormal. Although Lin Ziqi was only seventeen, she was learning advanced mathematics from university science and engineering textbooks. However, for Lin Ziqi, who had been receiving one-on-one tutoring almost every day for five years, it was not beyond her ability. There were many science and engineering otaku in the Senate, and advanced mathematics was a piece of cake for them.