---
layout: post
title: "Section 74: The Conspiracy"
category: 7
path: 2014-10-22-7-07400.md
tag: [normal]
---

Liang Cunhou nodded, "I am surprised that Huang Erye has such a loyal and patriotic heart! However, to send a warning, it is only necessary to send a messenger. Young Master Huang has great talent and is familiar with the situation of the 髡. He is a rare talent for the court. I have more important matters that I need to borrow Huang Erye's talent for."

Huang Bingkun quickly said, "As long as it is beneficial to the country and the people, I will do as Young Master Liang commands!"

"The situation in Guangzhou is already lost. The 髡贼's morale is high and they are unstoppable. The government troops have neither the will nor the ability to fight. Now, the only thing we can use is the hearts of the people!" Liang Cunhou said in a low voice.

"But the 髡贼 are used to deceiving people with empty words. The people are so bewitched that even a sage reborn would not be able to explain it..." Huang Bingkun felt that every time they talked about the hearts of the people, the 髡贼 were always the winners.

"Hehe, that's not right!" Liang Cunhou said, "The 髡贼 have just landed and have not yet established a firm foothold. This is a great opportunity to raise a righteous army!" He was a little excited, "This place is not like Qiongzhou. It is a place that has long been civilized by the king. There are many gentry and scholars. As long as we explain the great righteousness to them and have a leader, we don't have to worry about the righteous army not rising up like a swarm of bees!"

Liang Cunhou's plan was to have Huang Bingkun go to the more remote counties of the Pearl River Delta to raise a righteous army. He estimated that the Australians' troops would not be too many. The officials of the various counties would either be as afraid of the enemy as they were of tigers, or they would curry favor with the powerful. In the short term, it would inevitably be "pacified by proclamation." The 髡贼's troops were not many, and it was impossible to disperse their troops to be stationed in various counties. Therefore, the various counties would either have no garrisons, or only a very small number of troops. They were all singing the empty city stratagem.

"I have heard from Young Master Huang that every time the 髡贼 occupy a place, they have to recruit fake 髡 to 'civilize' it," Liang Cunhou said. "The 髡贼 can have today all because of the ignorant and unruly people who have joined them and become their vanguards. We can't give them this opportunity."

We must seize the opportunity when the 髡贼 have not yet recruited "fake 髡" on a large scale and send people out to organize and mobilize the local gentry and powerful families. They often have recruited village braves, and if they gather together, they can raise thousands of troops in an instant.

As long as the county magistrate and the small number of garrisons sent by the 髡贼 are eliminated, the prestige of the righteous army will be greatly boosted, and the people in the county will not dare to be incited by the 髡贼. From one county to several counties, and then from several counties to various places, it will instantly form a prairie fire!

"...At that time, the 髡贼 will only have a few thousand troops, and they will be stretched thin. At best, they will be trapped in Guangzhou. Trade will be cut off, and food and supplies will be insufficient. What use will their strong ships and powerful cannons be then? When the heavenly soldiers arrive, they will still have to flee back to Qiongzhou in the end."

Huang Bingkun felt that this plan was feasible. Although the 髡贼's army was good at fighting, their numbers were extremely small, and they would certainly not be enough to control such a large area as Guangdong. If they could really create a situation where "the whole province raises a righteous army," the 髡贼 would not be able to slowly cultivate their own power.

"This plan is very clever, but..." Huang Bingkun said worriedly, "I am an outsider. When I arrive in the county, how can I gain the trust of the gentry, and how can I persuade them to raise an army..."

"You don't have to worry about this matter," Liang Cunhou said. "I have suitable people in the local area, but they are not familiar with the situation of the 髡, and they need you, this 'military advisor,' to assist them."

Huang Bingkun was very excited. Although he was a xiucai, he had fought in many battles with his father in the past: he had fought against bandits, pirates, and had fought with nearby villages over water sources. The courage of his youth was still there. In the past few years, he had been living a life of submission under the pressure of the 髡贼, and he had long been holding back a belly full of fire. At this moment, hearing that he was going to lead a "righteous army" to fight, he couldn't help but be full of heroic spirit. He stood up and cupped his hands, saying, "I, Huang, do not dare to spare my life, and I will definitely not fail my mission!"

Liang Cunhou nodded slightly with an appreciative expression, raised his wine cup, and said, "Huang Erye, I toast you a cup!"

Lin Zunxiu also quickly said, "I also toast you a cup." He was relieved in his heart.

The three of them drank the wine in their cups in one gulp. Huang Bingkun said, "I have one more matter, and I ask Young Master Liang to consider it."

"Feel free to speak."

"It is for the country and the people that we are the first to raise a righteous army, but we still need a name from the court to be able to call on people..."

"Huang Erye, you don't have to worry about this. I will send someone to handle it. Among the high officials of the court, there are already people who have seen through the wolfish ambitions of the 髡贼. Among the local gentry of Guangzhou, there are also high-minded people who despise the 髡贼."

"Good!" Huang Bingkun said, "This matter should be done quickly rather than slowly. Please make arrangements, Young Master. I will set out tomorrow!"

"Don't be in a hurry," Liang Cunhou said. "Although the four gates of Guangzhou are not closed to pedestrians now, the inspection is very strict. You will be carrying my letter. If you are found out, it will not be good. In a few days, when the gate control is relaxed a little, I will send a special person to send you there. You don't have to go back these few days. Rest here for now. I will send someone to your lodging to take care of things and bring your servant and luggage here. You can go with them then."

"He is not my family's servant. He was a gift from a friend in Guangzhou. The kindness he has received is still shallow. My trip this time is dangerous with fighting. If he follows me, he may not be able to fight to the death. On the contrary, he will be a burden. Please, Young Master Liang, send him away for me: he can go back to his original master's house if he is willing, or he can find his own way out if he is willing."

"That's not right. This kind of arrangement might reveal your whereabouts. I think it's better to leave him in my mansion," Liang Cunhou said. "I will send another capable servant to go with you."

"Thank you, Young Master Liang!"

The three of them discussed for a long time and talked about some countermeasures after the 髡贼 entered the city. Liang Cunhou sent someone to take Huang Bingkun to the guest room to rest. He then had a secret discussion with Lin Zunxiu again.

"The 髡贼 will definitely summon all the gentry of the city in these few days. The others are fine, but Mr. Qiutao is the most worrying..."

Chen Zizhuang was the number one gentry in Guangzhou, and he had a high reputation. His attitude would affect many people.

Lin Zunxiu did not understand, "Young Master, you are worrying too much. Although Mr. Qiutao has offended the emperor, he can still distinguish between right and wrong, loyalty and treachery..."

Liang Cunhou said, "I'm not worried about this! How dare I doubt Mr. Qiutao's moral character? But he also has a family. If he has the idea of dealing with the 髡贼 with false compliance, the 髡贼 will have achieved their goal!"

Lin Zunxiu thought for a moment. Chen Zizhuang would not necessarily commit suicide and die for his country because the city of Guangzhou was broken. At that time, when the 髡贼 came to invite him to a meeting, at most he would refuse on the grounds of illness and close his door to guests. It was impossible to completely oppose the 髡贼. The 髡贼 could then use this to make an issue of it.

"In that case..."

"We need to ask him to avoid the limelight for a while," Liang Cunhou said. "The best plan for now is to quickly notify him to hide. This will have to trouble you..."

Lin Zunxiu was surprised and said, "But I have no old acquaintance with him..."

With Chen Zizhuang's identity and status, a merchant's son with no prominent academic achievements like Lin Zunxiu could not even hope to get close to him.

"Why do you need to have an old acquaintance with him?" Young Master Liang smiled and said, "Your family runs a restaurant. You can just go to him on the pretext of delivering a banquet. I have another letter here. He will definitely see you then."

He lowered his voice, "This matter is of great importance. I dare not entrust it to others. I can only ask you to make a trip in person."

Since he had said so, Lin Zunxiu had no choice but to say, "I will make a trip tomorrow!"

Liang Cunhou nodded and asked again, "Of the people in your Yuyuan Society, how many are reliable and how many are unreliable?"

The Yuyuan Society was a mixed bag. Although most of them had the attitude of "using the barbarian's skills to control the barbarians," there were also not a few "elite 髡" who admired 髡 studies and prostrated themselves before the Australians.

This question was difficult for Lin Zunxiu to answer. He thought for a moment and said, "Except for a few people, most of them are still reliable. The 髡贼 are now openly rebels. No matter how muddle-headed they are, can they still serve the thieves with their bodies?"

Young Master Liang shook his head and said, "They are still reliable now, but it may not be so in a few days. Serving the thieves with one's body and recognizing the thieves as one's father are common things in all dynasties. Even in the army of the roving bandits, there are many people in official robes." He picked up a piece of roast duck, put it in his mouth, and chewed it slowly. He said, "The society is full of scholars. The 髡贼 have just entered the city, and a hundred things are waiting to be done. What they lack is talent..."

Lin Zunxiu shivered, "You mean, the 髡贼 will lure them with false positions?"

"That's for sure," Liang Cunhou sneered. "Don't look at them having not held a civil service examination in Qiongzhou for many years and only running schools—that's because there are not so many scholars in Qiongzhou. Now that they have arrived in Guangzhou, they will inevitably recruit people in official robes in the name of holding civil service examinations and recruiting talented scholars. At that time, how can those poor students resist? It's fine for ordinary scholars, but the people in the society are all proficient in 髡 studies. Once they accept a false position, the harm will be very great!"

Lin Zunxiu thought about it and indeed it was so. He quickly said, "This... what then?"

Young Master Liang took out a leather-bound book from the drawer and took out a few Delong's checks and a list from it.

"This is Delong's check. Your family is a restaurant, so a large withdrawal will not attract attention. You go and distribute them according to this list. It is a subsidy from the society. Of course, you also have to remind them a few words, not to be blinded by the desire for fame and fortune! Don't end up with 'having the heart to take but no life to enjoy'," Liang Cunhou said grimly.

"I know!" Lin Zunxiu said with awe.

Liang Cunhou stroked his forehead, "The hearts of people are not what they used to be. You can't move an inch without silver. Even this loyalty has to be maintained by silver!" As he spoke, he sighed with emotion.

Lin Zunxiu was silent. Suddenly, Young Master Liang asked again, "How is Wu Ming?"

Lin Zunxiu was stunned, "Him? He is very interested in 髡 studies and is also smart. I heard that he has dealings with the 髡贼 of the Grand World."

Liang Cunhou was silent for a long time and said, "I'll think about it again."

"I'm afraid this person is not very reliable," Lin Zunxiu said. "He has always been disrespectful to the court and his words are frivolous."

"That's not surprising. He is conceited and thinks he is smarter than ordinary people. He writes a very flowery eight-legged essay, but he has failed the examination repeatedly and has not even obtained the title of a supplementary student yet," Liang Cunhou sighed. "Don't you know that essays have their own fate? He can't see through this point, so naturally a lump has grown in his chest. I originally wanted to help him in this examination, but heaven did not grant my wish!"

Lin Zunxiu said, "That's also his bad luck."

"Whether he is lucky or not is not the point, but we can't use him at this moment. What a pity!" Liang Cunhou felt it was a great pity. If he had helped him enter the school this time, for the public, he would have obtained an official title from the court, and for the private, he would have received his favor. Naturally, he would not be bewitched by the 髡贼. "This person is both proficient in 髡 studies and smart. He was originally a great help to us."