---
layout: post
title: "Section 358: The Retreat"
category: 6
path: 2014-4-6-6-35800.md
tag: [normal]
---

The rest of the day was spent in a chorus of amazement from the male and female heroes. When they were in Guangzhou, to avoid being discovered, they had not stayed at an inn owned by the Qihui Group. So, this was their first time experiencing the Australian-style inn, and it took some getting used to.

The bathroom was so clean they were afraid to step in it. Their own new, fragrant wooden bathtubs were nothing compared to the large, sparkling white bathtub with beautiful patterns. It was one thing to tremble as you climbed a stool to get in, and another to elegantly lift a leg and step in. Not to mention, a new tub was fine, but after a few washes, old dirt would accumulate in the cracks of the wooden tub. After a while, it would turn black and moldy, and even sunning and scrubbing couldn't get it clean.

A twist of the bronze faucet produced a continuous stream of hot water. This was a great relief to the lower-ranking disciples of the Hengshan Sect. Otherwise, just filling the bathtub would require carrying many buckets of water: one group to tend the fire, another to carry the water, carefully climbing a stool to pour the hot water in.

A slightly more advanced setup might have a stove underneath, allowing one to "boil a person alive," which only slightly reduced the labor of carrying water.

When it was time to bathe, the superiors naturally went first. It was impossible to change the water after they were done. Even just using cold water, there wasn't enough time to draw it. In a large sect, bathing was done in shifts. The elders bathed first, then the juniors. The low-ranking disciples, unless they were "favorites," could only use the water left by their masters and senior brothers and sisters. The water that was finally thrown out was rich enough to be used as fertilizer.

Now, everyone could take a long, luxurious bath. For people who had been on the road for days and hadn't even washed their faces properly, this was a great enjoyment.

After bathing, they returned to their rooms and put on the bathrobes provided by the inn. A cool breeze blew in, refreshing them completely. When staying at an inn, most people, except for a few, had to squeeze into a single room or sleep on a smelly communal bunk. Now, they all had double rooms. The rooms were comfortable, with no fleas or bedbugs. The sheets and quilts were so clean they were afraid to sit on them. Their own bedding, which they had carried all the way, looked rather dirty in comparison. When they read in the "User Manual" that the bedding was changed for each guest, even these seasoned martial artists were amazed. It was one thing to be on the road, where things were inconvenient, but even in their own sects, with easy access to water and fire, bedding was only washed every few months. At most, it was aired out as much as possible on sunny days.

They had heard of the "extravagance" of the 髡 before they arrived. They had imagined it to be a waste of resources, like using gold spittoons or washing pots with sugar water. They hadn't expected it to be an "extravagance" that greatly improved their quality of life. Zhuo Yifan and the others were knowledgeable people. They knew that a continuous supply of hot water from a tap was far beyond the ordinary meaning of "luxury."

Although the major sects had great reputations, and many had connections with high officials and nobles, and were not just local tyrants, life in the picturesque mountains was not entirely idyllic. As the saying goes, "Water is basically carried, vegetables are basically grown, meat is basically hunted, and fire is basically from firewood."

Although most sects, unless they were so poor that they had to mortgage their land deeds, kept some servants and had a few tenant farmers they could command, a large amount of heavy daily labor still fell on the disciples. Even a beloved disciple of the sect leader and a child of a wealthy family like Zhuo Yifan had to do some copying work. In terms of comfort, except for a few particularly wealthy sects, even the sect leader's standard of living was only that of an upper-middle-class family. The disciples were even worse off—unless they came from wealthy families.

In the evening, Li Xiaoliu delivered dinner with a four-wheeled cart. The cart was filled with tin lunch boxes, two for each person, containing rice and dishes. There were also two large pots of soup. The "old mistress" and the "young master" each had a banquet, which was very exquisite. Zhuo Yifan naturally didn't dare to eat alone. He invited Wan Lifeng, Sha Guangtian, and Meng Bofei to eat and drink with him. At the table, they discussed their next steps and their first impressions of Lingao.

The wine was a local rum from Lingao. Wan Lifeng had wanted a bottle of the world-famous "Guoshi Wushuang," but was told it was out of stock. Fortunately, the rum was strong enough and had a rather strange aroma, which was a new experience for them.

Because they had an important mission, they didn't drink much, just a few sips. They then began to discuss their mission in a low voice.

Although Zhuo Yifan was the leader of this mission, he did not know the specific details. Before they left, the White Stone Daoist had only told him to contact Sima Qiudao. Sima Qiudao would relay what they were to do in Lingao.

However, although they didn't know the specifics, Zhuo Yifan and the others knew very well that they had come to Lingao, most likely to assassinate or kidnap an important leader of the 髡. If the mission was to steal secrets, only a few master thieves would have been sent, and they wouldn't have gone to the trouble of arranging for so many of them to come to Lingao.

"Brother Zhuo, it's obvious what we're here to do in Lingao," Wan Lifeng said slowly, taking a bite of food. "It's nothing more than killing and arson. I'm just a little worried that once we make our move, this is the 髡's lair. It won't be easy for us to escape."

It was fine to be a hero in the martial arts world, but one had to have an escape plan. Otherwise, a single mistake could cost you your life. Once you were dead, you were nothing but a puff of smoke, and fame and fortune would be useless.

But Zhuo Yifan was confident. "Don't worry, Uncle Wan. For this operation, Seventh Master has already arranged an escape plan for us."

Since they had already arrived in Lingao, and everyone present was a core member, it was time to discuss some matters. Otherwise, if people were unsettled, it could easily lead to trouble.

Once they made their move, regardless of success or failure, the 髡 would inevitably launch a city-wide search. Lingao was the 髡's lair, and they had many people. Whether they fled to the sea to escape by boat or fled to the neighboring counties, they would face a massive encirclement and search by the 髡.

Fleeing to the sea was clearly impossible. The Qiongzhou Strait was now the 髡's inner lake, and the road from East Gate Market to Bopu was heavily guarded. To break through the encirclement of thousands of troops and escape to the sea to seize a boat was simply a fantasy.

Even if they managed to cross the sea at Bopu, the 髡's influence in Leizhou on the other side was also very strong. It would be more like walking into a trap than escaping to safety.

The only possibility of escape was to first flee to a neighboring county and then find a way to cross the sea. Although the 髡 now occupied the entire island of Hainan, their presence was limited outside of Lingao. There were many wilderness areas, and the possibility of escape was high.

The problem was that the 髡 would also think of this and would inevitably deploy a large number of troops at the checkpoints on the roads to the neighboring counties to intercept them.

"...Our plan is to do the opposite," Zhuo Yifan said, dipping his chopsticks in wine and drawing on the table. "Not north, not east, not west, but south!"

"South?" Sha Guangtian was surprised. He had studied the map of Lingao and had a rough idea of the terrain. "That's the Li people's territory!"

The central part of Hainan Island had always been the Li area. Even for the Han people on the island, the Li area was a mysterious and unpredictable place. Except for a few merchants and garrison soldiers who had entered the Li area, most people stayed away from this densely forested and miasma-filled place.

"Exactly!" Zhuo Yifan nodded. "The 髡 will definitely think we won't go south. Even if the southern roads are guarded, the defense won't be too strong. That's our only chance of escape."

"But we know nothing about the Li area!" Meng Bofei interjected. "We don't have a guide. Not to mention the savages inside, we won't survive if we catch the miasma."

"Shi Weng has already made arrangements for that," Zhuo Yifan said, following his instructions to reveal this to them at this time. "He has already arranged for a righteous man who is familiar with the terrain of the Li area to be our guide. He will be responsible for leading us from the Li area to the neighboring county, and then we will cross the sea back to the mainland."

"I see!" Meng Bofei nodded. "I'm relieved to hear that."

Wan Lifeng still seemed a little worried. "Brother Zhuo, are these local contacts reliable? We've been risking our lives since we entered Lingao. If there's a single mistake, we'll be doomed."

Zhuo Yifan knew that Wan Lifeng was afraid that he was just making empty promises and wanted a clear answer. He said, "Before the operation, the person who will be our guide will meet with us first."

"Tomorrow, the 髡's police will come to register our households. Do we need to make any preparations?" Wan Lifeng asked. "How much should we prepare for bribes?"

"None at all," Zhuo Yifan said. "Seventh Master said that the 髡 here do everything by the book. If you try to bribe them, it will only make things worse. In short, do as she says, and don't argue. Hide all the weapons and equipment well. Although the 髡 won't search us, we should still be prepared."

"I understand."

"Household registration is just the first thing," Zhuo Yifan said patiently. "Next, we have to go look at houses—and the silver sent from Delong, we have to exchange it for the 髡's banknotes. Although these are useless things, if we don't do them, the 髡 will become suspicious. Uncle Wan, you must do this seriously."

Wan Lifeng nodded and then smiled. "The houses are one thing, but this exchange, I feel sorry for the silver. Thousands of taels of silver turned into a pile of paper. We won't be able to use it when we get back to the Great Ming..."

Zhuo Yifan also smiled. "What's to be sorry about? This is a big deal. Shi Weng has already spent so much silver. A few thousand more taels is nothing."

Wan Lifeng shook his head. "I really don't understand who this Shi Weng is, to go to such great lengths to deal with the 髡. The 髡 are notoriously difficult to deal with..."